EN
My Group and I are pleased to have voted for and supported the Ludford report which is concerning the important subject of the fight against racism and xenophobia. Those who have voted to oppose family unity; to oppose encouragement for ethnic minorities to participate in elections; against a policy force that reflects Europe's diversity and against multi-ethnic parliaments are to be deplored and condemned. The British Labour members and the PSE Group voted in favour of Amendment 2 to delete paragraph 17, not because we opposed the sentiments and intentions, but as it was open to possible misinterpretation or charges of ambiguity. The fight against the racists and xenophobes in our society, those who seek to divide Europe, is one that must and will be won. – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the presidency of the Council and the presidency of the Commission, who have always promoted this initiative, on taking up the Lisbon debate. This is an extremely important debate because less than a year ago we committed ourselves to nothing less than turning Europe into the most competitive and dynamic area of stability in the world. Nothing less than that. However, the 2010 horizon is looking stormy because the reticence of some countries to carry out liberalisation programmes approved by everybody and the resistance of States such as France to losing some of the flagships of its public sector are creating a two-speed Europe, a Europe in which countries which fulfil their collective commitments see their progress threatened by suspiciously aggressive strategies from companies, which are still public, in relation to recently liberalised sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot is at stake, but above all the legitimacy of the Community institutions is at stake in the eyes of the European citizens, who see the spread of a dangerous dynamic which favours the directors of powerful companies and which yields few results. That is why I think Stockholm is so important. Stockholm must mark the beginning of a thorough debate on public participation in key industrial sectors. This debate must take place within the framework of a mutual process of evaluation and learning which will contribute to improving the operation of the single market. Based on a scoreboard of objective indicators for privatisation, this debate must bring together the different attitudes to the principles of competition, freedom of establishment and free movement of capital. This debate is being demanded by the European citizens who, having accepted competition as an effective method for allocating resources, are seeing their markets subjected to inefficiencies imported from countries which are ideologically allergic to economic reform. – Mr President, Mr President of the European Central Bank, good work! I believe that you have achieved the main objective of the European Central Bank: to maintain price stability. I will go further. If necessary, if you believe it appropriate to raise interest rates, if the objective is price stability, if the inflation objective is in jeopardy, do not be nervous, raise interest rates. However, I would like to add something. It is not in this area that the European Central Bank deserves most credit, but rather it is in the debate on the external value of the euro that the European Central Bank has remained steadfast, has endured and resisted attacks and pressure from different fronts. The real reason for the external value of our currency is not, from any point of view, the policy of the European Central Bank. It is the attitude and resistance of certain governments – such as, for example, the one which has been mentioned here several times over the last 35 hours, which are ideologically allergic to the economic reforms needed for the European Union to follow the path marked out at the Lisbon Summit. I would also like to congratulate you on the change of method of adjudication, since the new variable rate system allows more direct control of the monetary aggregate as a result of greater knowledge of the market’s demand curve and, furthermore, allows for certain signals to be sent to the markets on monetary policy. For all of these reasons, Mr President of the European Central Bank, I would like to congratulate you and show you my support. – Madam President, firstly I will refer to Mr Dupuis’s speech. He said that it is the people and civil society that should decide whether a party exists or disappears. I was concerned to hear this from Mr Dupuis, because obviously it is a subject that he knows well, as his party has just disappeared from the Italian political map. Going back to serious matters and serious speeches, I am the secretary-general of a European political party and moreover, I would like to stress, of a party that does not sit in the European Parliament. It is the only party that has its own headquarters, a small house in Brussels that is separate from the European Parliament, and funding that for the most part (more than 70%) is not dependent on the parliamentary group but on the parties that are members of our political family. I think that today is a great day for European construction, but I would go even further: today a big step is being taken in constructing a political Europe. Because those of us who believe in a political Europe, and in my group we do, of course, believe in this, know that the parties are a fundamental part of a political union. Political areas, such as the Member States, have parties that provide cohesion: France, Spain, Italy, Germany... all have national parties. Europe needs parties that deal with and work in the whole of the Union, and this is what will give cohesion and coherence to the European Union. I therefore think that this Regulation is a good one and is to be welcomed, for two reasons. Firstly and obviously, because it provides rules and transparency for the functioning and funding of these very important elements for the political future of the European Union. Secondly, because of the role that these parties will play in the future. Because, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a political union, a Europe of 23, 25, 27 or more Member States is going to be increasingly difficult to manage. It is going to be increasingly difficult to move forward and increasingly difficult to have common opinions. The European parties are a new instrument that can provide coherence, which can act as the backbone of this political union that we desire, in order to achieve a consensus where it would otherwise be difficult. I can imagine the different European political families meeting prior to the meetings of the European Council with 27 prime ministers and reaching consensuses that will enable the European Union to move forward with a firm step towards the future. I do not think, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that we realise the importance of the step that we are taking today. Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the important report she has produced and at a time such as this, on the eve of the European Parliament elections. We all know that equality between men and women is a fundamental principle in Community law, as enshrined in the Treaty of Amsterdam, which included equality between men and women as an objective in all programmes. We therefore call for concrete measures to facilitate the presence of women in electoral lists and, therefore, in the European Parliament. In this case, this request could be extended to the other regional or national parliaments in which the representation of women is still low in comparison with the percentage of women, who make up half the population, and in some cases rather more than half the population. We know that when there is no special assistance, through positive action measures, with laws to facilitate this great presence of women, we women have real problems accessing institutional posts, political posts and therefore political decision-making posts and positions of power. We have had experience over recent years of the presence of women continuing to increase slightly, but in no case has it passed much more than 30% and we are right to fear that in the next European elections it may be reduced. As the rapporteur has said, the presence of women amongst the observers coming from the enlargement countries is really low; some countries have not presented women at all as observers, and we fear that, following the elections to the European Parliament, this presence will be no greater than 15%. It is precisely for this reason that it is important and significant that we are stressing this at the moment, and we are not forgetting the countries which currently belong to the European Union, in which the percentage is no greater than 30% in the majority of cases – with the exception of the Nordic countries – and in others that percentage is even lower and women are still facing significant difficulties in terms of accessing decision-making positions. They are still significant because there are no electoral laws – with the exception of two countries – laying down the obligation for women to be present on lists and because our ability to be present in decision-making bodies and parliaments depends essentially on the political parties, on the mentality of political leaders and on the awareness we are able to communicate to society on the importance of this issue. This is therefore the appropriate time and it is a task which we, as women committed to the presence of women, but also men, and Members of Parliament and political leaders must take on: this challenge of achieving greater presence for women within the political institutions. Only the political will of leaders, of parties, when it comes to making decisions, will ensure that there are really more women following the elections and therefore a better balance between men and women in decision-making. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank Mrs Figueiredo for her work on the application of the gender equality work programme, since, as she has said and as we say continually in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, we still need to carry on working to achieve equality in most fields, such as equal pay and equal opportunities, despite the fact that this Chamber constantly receives reports of all types covering a wide range of legislation. We need to continue with this work and to insist that the programme is complied with; we must be familiar with the data and possess better information on the implementation of the programme. It would be very helpful to our work if the data were given for each country. That is something we have asked for many times and which is crucial if the work is to be based on real data and if it is to be more effective. As the report states, it is also important to achieve the objectives proposed at the Lisbon European Council, for women to represent 60% of the active population, not forgetting the significant number of women who work in small family-owned businesses, with no recognition of any kind for their work and with no social protection. That is a problem we should address in the near future, as the number of women in this situation in areas such as agriculture, fishing and small companies is highly significant. These are specific gender-related problems which arise in various fields, but which are extremely important. This report calls for a solution to be found. Gender is also very important in terms of social exclusion and poverty. We should therefore welcome the fact that the Danish Presidency has included this in its programme in order to be able to make progress in solving these problems. I also genuinely hope that the proposal for a directive on equality based on Article 13 of the Treaty will be presented here. I also hope that the establishment of the Institute for Equality between men and women, which I am pleased to see the feasibility report has already approved, will not be postponed. Commissioner, on behalf of my Group I insist that this work must continue as quickly as possible. – Mr President, equality of opportunity between men and women has been enshrined in Articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty of Amsterdam and is now one of the objectives which the European Union will have to take into account in all Community policies. The presence of women in the scientific field has increased considerably in recent years, but is still insufficient. The presence of women in universities, in all fields, has increased, but in the subjects which we would essentially call ‘scientific’ – such as mathematics, information technology, engineering and architecture – they are still under-represented. This is aggravated by the fact that, after finishing their studies with good results, in most cases they do not pursue a scientific career fundamentally because of the difficulties this gives rise to. On the one hand, this is because of the organisation of the development of the scientific profession and also because of the difficulty of reconciling professional life with family life. Therefore, it seems to us to be especially important that the Commission has the will to defend the participation of women in the scientific field, in specific programmes, although what we consider to be really important is their participation in the context of the fifth framework programme for technological research and development for 1998-2002. Measures for the integration of women should be adopted in the specific programmes which I mentioned earlier. Through their contribution to research, women can offer all their own qualities which will doubtless enrich the scientific world. Balanced participation should be promoted, with the aim of equal participation, without forgetting that full professional qualifications are essential. The promotion of women in this field must start with the more specifically scientific universities and in the subsequent continuation of professional careers. The employment of young female researchers should be promoted by means of the Marie Curie grants, which should be granted in sufficient numbers. Women must participate at all levels of consultation and decision making, and not only in scientific investigation, since the objective is enrichment and complementarity. The participation of women in science should be promoted from school age, and particularly in information technology, since this is enormously important in terms of accessing other scientific fields, not only in the European Union, but also in the associated countries and in the under-developed areas where Union programmes are being carried out. From school age, women should be helped to participate in the scientific world and in new technologies. A greater presence of women in the scientific world should reflect the importance of the participation of women in all areas of the social sphere. A greater presence of women in the fifth and sixth framework programmes will be an example of the equality between men and women, easing their incorporation into a sector in which they have been traditionally under-represented. It will be necessary to perfect the reconciliation between professional and family lives, since this is essential to a greater presence of women in positions of responsibility. In Parliament, and particularly in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities – we will continue to work towards these fundamental objectives in order to achieve a better balance in society. . – Mr President, Commissioner, the objective of equality of opportunities between women and men was incorporated into the Treaty of Amsterdam, and this established the legal basis for the Community commitment to working on all the Structural Funds programmes in order to attain this objective. It was also incorporated into the Regulation for the Structural Funds for the 2000-2006 period. Equality of opportunities is an objective in all the programmes and actions cofinanced by the Funds. Despite these very clear objectives and their compulsory nature, we have observed that, apart from the European Social Fund, they are not being met, even when they are included in a programme that is due to be implemented. The European Social Fund is the only programme in the field of employment, vocational training and career development that is meeting this objective with specific programmes intended to achieve equal opportunities; but other important areas, such as infrastructures, transport, the environment, local and urban development, rural development, research, etc., do not feature equality amongst their objectives. Although the European Social Fund focuses on promoting employment, major actions still need to be undertaken, such as reducing segregation in the labour market and pay inequalities, and promoting the role of women in the fields of information and communication technologies, entrepreneurship, new employment opportunities and the decision-making process. We ask the Commission to adopt more specific and more effective measures to remedy these shortcomings. We also think that there is a clear lack of will in the Member States to promote the objective of equality in the Structural Funds. It is true that progress has been made on compiling statistics broken down by gender, which gives us a truer picture of the situation, but monitoring indicators for the programmes have not improved in relation to previous programming. The Member States are responsible for programming and we ask them to make more of an effort to support specific policies and actions to achieve the objective of equal opportunities, by selecting projects that meet this aim. The Member States could also develop infrastructures, such as nurseries, and day centres for the elderly or the disabled; normally these obligations are taken on by the women in the family and, with the appropriate infrastructures, we could ensure that women are better integrated into working life, promote the reorganisation of working time and arrangements for returning to work after long absences and do more to raise awareness of the need for an equal division of tasks between women and men in families. Particular attention must be paid to women who find it harder to achieve equality of opportunity, such as women with disabilities, immigrants and heads of families. Greater integration of women into decision-making bodies would undoubtedly facilitate this task. Training and awareness-raising in the field of equal opportunities should not only target these women, however, but society as a whole. Let us take the opportunities provided by the Treaty and the Structural Funds Regulation to make progress in equal opportunities with projects that fulfil these objectives. The mid-term evaluation that will be undertaken this year, half-way through the programme, must analyse the extent to which account has been taken of this objective: the nature and the size of the appropriations earmarked for these practical actions in the field of equal opportunities to undertake the necessary changes, for the second programming period. Account must also be taken of the importance of these actions in the candidate countries, which will become Members of the EU in just over a year and which have administrative and economic restructuring difficulties that particularly affect women. – Mr President, Commissioner, this report on the implementation of innovative measures laid down in the European Social Fund, which has been so well produced by the rapporteur, Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, considers innovative measures and pilot projects on a European level relating to labour markets, professional employment and training, study, exchange of experience and also Community dialogue, which is an extremely important instrument for the creation of jobs and social cohesion. The priority objective of the European Union, as laid down at the Lisbon Summit, is to turn the European Union into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic development, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion. This objective, which we all wish to achieve, demands innovative measures to integrate groups with special difficulties into the labour market. Notable in this respect is the need to maintain the objective of equal opportunities, since the presence of women in the labour market is still insufficient. The partnership between the different actors in the economy, as well as the choice of issues to be tackled, will help to achieve the proposed objective. Thank you very much. – Mr President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Haug, for the magnificent work that she has done as the rapporteur responsible for the budget and for her efforts in dealing with the requests that the various committees have made. As far as the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities is concerned, the final result is not exactly the one that we would have liked. The quantities budgeted are very far below what we had requested, but we accept that this has been a general practice and we therefore accept the result as it stands. This does not mean that in next year’s budget we will not once again be determined to obtain what we think is fairest and most appropriate, and what will enable us to achieve the objectives of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities. . – Mr President, Commissioner, the report presented by the Committee on Women’s Rights was approved by Parliament at first reading, practically in its entirety. A new line, A-3037 N, was added to the amendments in this report, for women’s organisations which do not belong to the European lobby, but which do effective work for the equality and promotion of women. Both this and certain other proposals by the Committee on Women’s Rights have been removed by the Council, and therefore Parliament, making use of the rights afforded it by the Treaties, since they are not obligatory expenses, is presenting them once again for approval. We are thereby acting coherently, presenting the amendments which Parliament approved on first reading. Amongst these amendments I must also highlight line B5-331, Information Society, which is so important for the future, especially for women and their full incorporation into the labour market. I would lastly like to warmly thank Mr Costa Neves for the very important work he has done and his sensitivity in responding to the needs we had raised. I hope that the House will approve it by a large majority, because, as you all know, since the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force, all Community programmes must include the objective of promoting women and achieving greater equality, not only in the European Union, but also in the countries with which we have cooperation agreements, particularly in the Euro-Mediterranean area. –  Mr President, in this plenary sitting we are presenting the Daphne Community action programme on preventive measures to fight violence against children, young people and women. Violence is a social problem of regrettable topical importance which involves the violation of human rights and a physical, mental and social crime as well as a crime against people’s quality of life. The Daphne Programme 2000-2003 will be an instrument of vital importance in the fight against violence and will provide added value to local, regional and national actions in this field through the creation of networks, the exchange of information, better practices and cooperation and greater awareness in society in general. The common position expressly mentions the victims of exploitation and sexual abuse which would be covered by the programme, as well as the common establishment of priorities, promoting innovation and the exchange of experiences regarding actions taken by Member States, including the exchange of information on different legislation and the results obtained. Non-governmental organisations should be promoted, in particular those which are concerned with the well-being and quality of life of children, young people and women. The present programme will last four years, and an evaluation of its progress is planned for two years after its implementation. The actions will also have the aim of improving public and media awareness with regard to this grave problem. The budget for implementation will be EUR 20 million and the Community contribution to the funding of the programmes will vary, up to a maximum of 80% of the cost of the action. In the implementation of this action, the Commission will be assisted by a committee consisting of representatives of the Member States and chaired by the representative of the Commission. The programme will be open to the countries of the European Free Trade Area, the associated countries of Central and Eastern Europe, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the European agreements, and to Cyprus, Malta and Turkey by means of supplementary credits. The aim of the Daphne programme is to support and recognise the work carried out by the non-governmental organisations, as well as other organisations – including the public authorities which are concerned with violence – and to ensure that they cooperate with each other, in the exchange of good practices – including pilot projects on a Community scale on the prevention of violence – and the support and protection of children, young people and women. The networks will form a common front against violence by analysing it, in its different forms, its causes and consequences. The real impact of the different types of violence on victims must be measured, in order to determine suitable responses, evaluate the types and the efficiency of the measures and practices in order to prevent and detect violence, support victims and prevent their future exposure to it. This programme, as I have said, will be an important weapon in the fight against violence towards women, young people and children in terms of improving social and media awareness of the need to help and protect the victims of violence. Six amendments to the common position have been presented, which have been approved by the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities and are in the annex to the text. I would like to point out that amendments 3 and 5 will be replaced by new amendments which modify point 18 of the preamble and articles 5, 6 and 7 in order to adapt the text we are presenting to the wording drawn up by the Socrates Conciliation Committee and which will lead to a parallel solution for the committees in the majority of programmes. It is therefore the wording which has to be adapted and we hope that Parliament will do so suitably. I would ask you to vote unanimously for this programme, since it is of enormous importance. And we hope that by approving this second reading with the amendments presented, if the Commission and the Council accepts them, the programme may be approved, avoiding conciliation. I do not wish to end my intervention without mentioning the first rapporteur of this report, Mrs Benassar. When she left Parliament, with the beginning of the new mandate on 15 June, I was appointed rapporteur and I continued with the work which she had carried out. I continued with her efforts and have tried to work on this essential action which the Commission must take – the defence of women, young people and children – in order to prevent the violence which, unfortunately, is regularly directed at them. Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Prodi most sincerely for appearing before the Committee on Budgetary Control. I should also like to thank him for addressing the House today and giving such a clear account of concerns for the future. We strongly agree that it is necessary to work for the future and to improve on what has not been done well so far. We are therefore glad to hear talk of reforming the reform, if I may put it like that. In other words, despite reforms or attempts at reform some things have not gone well. Further reform is needed. We were also glad to hear Mr Prodi speak of increased transparency in the future. Nonetheless, Mr Prodi, Members of the House also like to discuss what has taken place during these four years and what has not worked well. Parliament’s critical approach is aimed in fact at improving things in the future. We hope it will be possible to avoid repeating some of the difficulties we are currently confronted with. This is why we could have welcomed more detailed responses from you on certain issues, Mr Prodi. We need to be confident that the problems currently causing us serious concern will not recur in the future. We are concerned because we in Parliament wish to work with the Commission. We want to cooperate to strengthen and improve European institutions still further. What is needed is a strong Parliament alongside a strong Commission, Mr Prodi. For this reason we in the Committee on Budgetary Control adopt a critical and demanding approach. At the same time, it is of course a positive approach. Mr Prodi, you must be in no doubt that our aim is for the Commission to become better and stronger as we go forward into the future. After all, that is the message we have to deliver when we stand in the European elections. We will be telling the citizens that they must vote in elections to the European Parliament to promote still stronger institutions. That is the positive message we must convey. We would like to work with the Commission to get it across. Mr Prodi, please bear in mind therefore that our criticism is always positive and is aimed at facilitating solutions acceptable to all. –  Madam President, Commissioner, Mr McCartin’s follow-up report on the Commission’s management during the 2000 financial year, identifies clearly a number of issues which have caused debate and concern within the Committee on Budgetary Control. Under expenditure is one of the most important. There was a budget surplus of 14% in 2000. The figure for 2001 was 16%. This situation should be prevented by improving the assessment of budgetary needs and the evaluation of running policies in order to optimise value for money for the European taxpayer. The problem of under expenditure is most worrying in the case of Structural Funds, in view of their objectives and of the important needs they address. Most recipients find the Regulations too complicated. In my view, applying the Regulations in a more flexible way could prove a solution to this difficulty. After all, the Structural Funds have a direct impact on citizens. Commissioner Barnier has already made several statements along these lines. As the rapporteur has requested, we should receive regular reports on progress in this area. It is essential to improve management of the recovery of unduly paid funds in order to improve budgetary control. The fight against fraud must be strengthened too. OLAF should report regularly on its actions, and should cooperate more closely with national courts of auditors and with the budgetary control authorities of Member States in order to assist the Commission in its work. We will support the amendment tabled by Mr Blak aimed at improving access to documents. This would facilitate the work of the House. – Mr President, Commissioner, I must congratulate Mrs Hermange on her initiative on this report on illiteracy, since it is a problem which we do not normally pay much attention to, because we think we have achieved total literacy, since the majority of Member States of the European Union have made enormous efforts over recent years to achieve this objective and we thought we had done so. However, there are increasingly pockets of marginalisation in the cities, there is an immigrant population establishing itself in our cities and that means that the problem of illiteracy, and particularly functional illiteracy, is a really serious problem today, because it is always linked to poverty, to marginalisation and to social exclusion. As defenders of human rights – and this is one of the most fundamental rights, as has been pointed out here – we have an obligation to draw attention to this matter so that programmes are set up to resolve the problem. The worst affected are the young people who come from these sections of the population, who do not have employment opportunities, or in some cases find insecure jobs, without any opportunity to improve their working conditions. Since the Lisbon Summit, becoming the most competitive information society in the world has been one of our objectives. If the information society is fundamental to work in the future, these young people who can hardly find work under normal conditions, will not have any opportunity unless we integrate them into this information and knowledge society. It is therefore urgent to carry out programmes and actions by means of the Green Paper which the rapporteur is requesting, so that these sections of the population, which are increasing with the immigration of recent years, are offered a solution to this fundamental problem, so that they can access other systems of personal welfare. We always focus on health, housing and employment, but this is a fundamental problem and resolving it should be a priority. I once again congratulate the rapporteur on this wonderful initiative, which draws attention to a problem that is still facing us. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the second reading of a directive which is important for the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women, in terms of access to employment, training, professional promotion and working conditions. This directive has led to many hours of work, meetings and agreements between the different groups in order to achieve a text that is acceptable to the majority of the House, as well as the Council and the Commission. It has not been easy, but foremost has been the desire for a legal text which is a good instrument for providing women with equal access to the labour market under equal conditions and for allowing them to reconcile family and professional lives, which still causes women enormous problems, especially young women. Article 1(2), which guarantees that women retain their job after maternity leave, is of the greatest importance. Not because it is an innovation, since it is included in most national legislations, but because, despite this, retaining jobs and continuing professional promotion after maternity are still creating enormous problems for women. These problems principally affect women, but the directive lays down that, when a father has paternity leave, he can have the same guarantees as women, although this leave is after the specific leave for childbirth, which is exclusive to women. Also included are positive measures which promote the presence of the least-represented sex in a specific working sector, in order to allow greater equality between men and women. It is also important to stress that the directive deals with a work problem which unfortunately affects women more than men: sexual harassment, which will not only be prosecuted and punished, but prevention measures will also be adopted in companies. Although we are aware that small companies may have problems complying with this directive, we believe that it is an important achievement for equality between men and women. I hope that in the end it will help women and not create additional problems for them. – Mr President, I think that the social policy agenda is positive for everyone. I think that harmonising the social policies of the different Member States cannot do anything other than benefit all Europeans. It will be particularly beneficial in all aspects relating to employment, which, since the Lisbon Summit, we know is a priority for the whole of the European Union. I would like to particularly stress the benefit which, in terms of employment, can be obtained by women through giving them improved access to employment with guarantees in terms of working time and salary. I think that there is also a great advantage, if we succeed in getting the directive applied, modified and updated, with regard to maternity leave: for women to receive help during maternity and for maternity to be protected when women have to continue working during that period. I also think that it will be very positive in terms of helping women to reconcile family and working life. It is going to enable women to continue in their jobs without neglecting their family obligations. Neither can we forget what the  initiative means for new jobs, new technologies and the information society, where I think women have an important role to play. These are new jobs where people can work from home with regulations that help to reconcile working life with family life. All these coordinated social policy actions will also help to combat poverty and social exclusion. I think that we should all welcome the arrival of this social policy agenda. –Mr President, Commissioner, we are dealing with an own-initiative report by the Committee on Women’s Rights which examines a serious problem, the genital mutilation of a great number of women and girls. This ancient practice violates the fundamental rights of the women and girls who fall victim to it and therefore constitutes an attack on the fundamental human rights recognised in the Treaties and in the Declarations of the United Nations. The report proposes the extension of protection and prevention in all the countries where it is practised and also in the European Union, where we know it is still practised within immigrant communities, or by means of a visit to the country of origin where the genital mutilation is carried out, since this practice is well-established within the customs of many people in Africa and some in Asia. Only prevention by means of information campaigns and clear explanation of the irreversible consequences of this practice will help to eradicate it. These campaigns must be carried out by NGOs, but with the firm commitment of governments and the decisive support of leaders, religious leaders in particular; education campaigns in schools, directed at boys and girls, such as those being carried out with considerable success in Burkina Faso, as Mrs Campaore has told us today. The prosecution of genital mutilation as a crime, both in the country where it is practised and when it is carried out in another country, that is, the extraterritoriality of the crime, will effectively help to eradicate it. In serious cases, some countries envisage the right to asylum, as contemplated in the directive under the heading of the right to asylum for reasons of sexual discrimination. We believe that to include here, in a general way, the right to asylum for alleged victims, that is to say, for millions of girls and teenagers, is inappropriate. We cannot open doors we are then unable to close, and we in the European Union cannot receive all the alleged victims who want to leave their country for this reason. The reality is that we cannot do it even if we would like to. It is on this issue that the Group of the European Peoples’ Party differs with this report, which may mean, in the event that it is approved, that we will abstain in the final vote. This is regrettable, because the report has many positive elements, particularly the need for the commitment to include the fight against genital mutilations in all cooperation programmes and to provide them with adequate financial aid, and the demand that the governments of the states where they are practiced commit themselves effectively to their eradication. We in the Group of the European Peoples’ Party unreservedly condemn genital mutilation and we defend the full physical rights of all women, their full sexual rights and their right to decide on their future even though that decision may be at odds with their people’s traditional past. We defend the rights of women as human beings, fully safeguarding their lives where ever they may be, and we are committed to continuing the work to eradicate this horrendous practice regardless of what may happen in relation to this report. – Madam President, has my vote been counted? I was unable to vote electronically, since I do not have a card. My vote was “in favour”. .– Mr President, Commissioner, 1999 was the last year of the first operating period of the Cohesion Fund, which was created by the Treaty of Maastricht. It was a fully justified and important instrument, not only of economic and social cohesion, but also of support for the countries which had the greatest difficulties in fulfilling the stability and convergence programmes which lead to the introduction of the single currency. That fund has been an important factor in terms of real convergence and a strong incentive for compliance with the Maastricht criteria. Aid has been directed towards the creation of infrastructure, transport and environmental projects. 99% of the aid envisaged was granted, which is rather a shame, since 100% should have been achieved, although that was almost achieved at the end of the period being analysed, that is, in 1999. The recent reform of the Structural Funds is adequate to significantly simplify the planning, implementation and funding of the interventions and the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has asked for the interventions to involve better assistance for national administrations. We feel it will be very important in the future to consider a breakdown by gender, which would permit specific actions aimed at the promotion of women. The financial contribution is lower than that contained in the proposal of the Commission and the European Parliament. It is regrettable that this will hinder the achievement of the employment objectives, particularly in view of the fact that all the Member States and European institutions are committed to decisive action in favour of employment, agreed at the Lisbon Summit. It is a positive thing to include amongst the objectives the achievement of equality between men and women in employment programmes, since it is one of the fields in which women clearly participate less than men. It is therefore satisfactory that the Commission has decided, in accordance with Articles 2 and 141 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, in the future to integrate gender into all Community policies and actions with a view to adopting horizontal positive action measures. –  Mr President, we have a definitive text, approved at the conciliation meeting of 17 April, which rounded off a long period of work. We in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities have sought to reach agreement on the most important points of this directive. It has not been easy; we have all made concessions, but we have managed to produce a text that satisfies the majority and which the Council agreed on following many meetings, both formal and informal. The directive addresses issues as important as the definition at Community level of sexual harassment; it bans discrimination against women on the grounds of pregnancy and maternity in the workplace, and also includes the issues of adoption and paternity, guaranteeing the employee’s job or an equivalent job; positive measures have been included for sectors in which one gender is under-represented; preventive measures have been drawn up to prevent discrimination in the workplace on the grounds of gender – especially harassment and sexual harassment – ensuring that real sanctions will be imposed in the event of non-compliance with the directive; equal treatment in the workplace is to be planned and systematic, and reports are to be drawn up every four years to help us determine the real situation women have to cope with. I believe that this is a good directive, which deals with the problems women face far too frequently, in the workplace and in professional life and will be a genuine tool to prevent discrimination. The excellent work done by the Spanish Presidency deserves mention as well as its efforts to ensure that the Council and the Commission were able to reach agreement. – Mr President, Commissioner, in 2000, more than 216 000 women contracted breast cancer in the European Union and more than 79 000 women died because of it. Breast cancer is the most common cause of death among women between the ages of 35 and 55. Cancer rates differ substantially from one country to another in the European Union: they are higher in the northern European countries and lower in the southern countries, such as Greece and Spain. Lithuania and Latvia also have low rates. In all countries, the rate is rising every year. Economic, environmental and even cultural factors have a large impact on these figures and breast cancer primarily affects women in higher social classes. The European guidelines for the early detection of breast cancer, which is the most effective means of achieving good results and a high chance of survival, are only recommendations and are not binding from a legal point of view. States draw up their own prevention and treatment plans, and these differ significantly from one State to another. In some countries, the programmes are regional, and there are still some Member States where early detection programmes do not even reach all women within the high-risk age bracket. This report, which is timely and very well written, aims to raise awareness throughout the European Union of this problem, which mainly affects women. Its publication has been a wise move on the part of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities. Every woman should have access to high-quality screening for, treatment of and aftercare in the event of breast cancer. As a result, we must do away with the disparities that currently exist among the Member States, whose survival rates vary by up to 16%. The most effective means, at this stage, of treating the cancer is still early diagnosis. The Community programme ‘Europe Against Cancer’ has been very effective and an excellent example, and we should therefore follow the same path in the future. Early detection, with programmes to ensure regular screening of women aged over 50, must be established in all of the Member States and the accession countries. The collaboration and increased awareness of women are of enormous importance: self-examination is an extremely useful tool, although mammography screening is the most effective technique for the early detection of the cancer. The fight against breast cancer must be a health policy priority and the Member States must draw up effective health policies and strategies to ensure better early detection, diagnosis and treatment. The report is very comprehensive, detailed and precise, and I congratulate Mrs Jöns on her willingness to accept suggestions and amendments that have improved the text. . –  Mr President, since the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, both the powers of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities and, in particular, European Union policies that promote equality of the sexes, in which particular emphasis is given to the Community programme for equal opportunities as a fundamentally important instrument in the struggle for equality, have been strengthened, as have the Daphne programme against domestic violence, and the Equal programme to encourage the incorporation of women into the labour market and compliance with the employment objectives of the Lisbon Summit, to name but a few. Social exclusion is another concern of the Committee on Women’s Rights, given that we are unfortunately witnessing the phenomenon of the ‘feminisation of poverty’. In order to achieve these priority objectives, we have put forward a series of amendments to the budget, which have been well received, and I would like to give special thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Costa Neves, for his support in obtaining a majority in the Committee on Budgets. A small proportion has been rejected, because it was already included in other budget lines: information actions in the common agricultural policy; methods to combat exclusion; the information society; the fight against poverty and the illnesses that arise as a result of it: malaria, tuberculosis, AIDS; care in the field of health and welfare; consolidation of democracy and human rights, etc. Aid for women’s organisations that work for the promotion of women in the European Union should also be pointed out, not only the women’s lobby, but also other organisations that monitor the respect for pluralism in our society. We cannot affirm that one sole organisation represents all of Europe’s women. This action is therefore intended to promote justice and recognition for many other European organisations that have been working towards the equality of the sexes for a long time now, which also have a right to receive financial aid from the European Union. The Committee on Women’s Rights is therefore very pleased that the rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets has accepted its proposals. – Mr President, Commissioner, the report that is being proposed for approval today in plenary refers to a minimal reform of Regulation 1577/96 on aid for the grain legume sector. So slight is the reform that it does not amend the total maximum guaranteed quantity, although it does split it into two, nor the amount of aid per hectare. The only new element is the substitution of the management committee by the cereal management committee. As the Spanish saying goes, which is very much in agreement with this regulation, ‘[‘here are some lentils, take them or leave them’]. Consequently, my Group will support the rapporteur's report and, above all, will particularly support Amendment No 2, which proposes the inclusion of areas dedicated to the production of seed vetches in the aid system, as this will lead to high-quality crops. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that we have missed the opportunity to support a substantial, very arid area of southern Europe, which has no other crop alternative for its soil. Furthermore, the demand for vetches for feeding livestock is increasing all the time, as shown, at least in Spain, by the fact that the area sown in the last three years has exceeded the proposed maximum guaranteed area by 100 000 hectares per year on average. On the other hand, the food problems we have had in the European Union have been caused by feeding herbivores with animal-based feedingstuffs, and if we do not encourage the feeding of livestock with plant proteins, such as legumes, and lower their price, farmers will continue to resort to animal meal due to the enormous pressure of competition. Finally, it just remains for me to lament, once again, the fact that the Commission's agricultural policy is more concerned with reducing spending – or, at best, not increasing it, as on this occasion – than with maintaining a genuine European agricultural sector that is so essential for the equilibrium of the region. . – Mr President, Commissioner, I will refer to the report on the institutions, namely the Council, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the European Ombudsman. With regard to the Council, for the first time this Parliament is granting discharge. Until now, it had not been denied, but there was a gentleman's agreement that Parliament would not give its opinion in relation to discharge. Now, it has been proposed that soon, when the Convention completes its work, the foreign and defence policy, which currently falls to the Council, should be included within the Commission; from now on, this issue will be subject to discharge, in the same way as for other institutions which depend exclusively on the Commission. Therefore, the Committee on Budgetary Control has considered it appropriate that this year the discharge of the Council be included, with the clarifications which I will summarise next. The committee is pleased to note that cooperation in terms of responses and improvement during the next financial year are one of the Council's objectives, as well as overcoming the discrepancies between the physical inventory and the accounting inventory. We believe that the same internal reform criteria should be applied in the Council as in the Commission in relation to staff policy, that is to say that the qualifications of personnel and their remaining in high-level, and therefore high-responsibility, positions within the Council, should obey the same criteria as the Commission, in terms of not remaining for long periods and professional classifications. We do not currently have much knowledge with regard to foreign and defence policy. As I said before, until now the Council has been treated differently, and we believe it should be managed more effectively and more transparently. With regard to the Court of Justice, discharge is granted, also with some observations which I will point out in a moment. We note that there have been considerable improvements in accounting management of real estate and in the presentation of the inventory as had been requested. We also note that all the real estate problems relating to the  and all the buildings in which the Court of Justice is based have been resolved. There were many gaps in relation to information on these processes, but they have now been resolved and we are very pleased about this. We are also glad to see that cases dealt with have increased, but the Court still operates slowly, which leads us to believe that perhaps it lacks sufficient resources. We would like to know the exact situation and the requests of this institution, so that we can contribute to resolving the difficulties. Discharge is also granted to the Court of Auditors and we must express our pleasure at the public presentation of the report of that Court, which was presented in a timely manner, in November, to the European Parliament and to the press, which is a transparent and clear way to behave. We urge the Court of Auditors to maintain this policy. Although sometimes, as a result of translation difficulties, the moment can be delayed, the sooner this presentation is made the better. We are also pleased with the efforts it has made to make the declaration of reliability an instrument which provides information on improvements in management and control. We believe this effort should be maintained, because it is one of the best ways of gathering information on the situation the institutions are in. We also know that the Court of Auditors has staffing problems; its staff, which must be highly qualified, do not stay in their posts very long – perhaps for reasons of personal promotion or professional career – and we should consider how we can resolve these problems, so that this staff is more stable and in order to facilitate the work of the Court. We should also consider whether in certain cases it is appropriate to turn to temporary contracts or some type of externalisation. We also welcome the improvements relating to information on the work carried out by the Court of Auditors. I will refer very briefly to the Economic and Social Committee, to which we are also granting discharge. All the past problems have been resolved, which we are very pleased about. This committee has presented its accounts and all its management in a clear manner, and, in contrast with the past, we have no difficulty in granting it discharge this year. I regret to say that this has not been the case in relation to the Committee of the Regions, and that we cannot grant it discharge during this plenary session. We therefore request that it be delayed. With the time limit for reports to be carried out expired, after a series of items of information had been requested by means of a questionnaire – as for the other institutions – we have received an audit report relating to 2001 in which there are many serious deficiencies in all aspects relating to the payment and presentation of receipts, travelling, daily allowances and other types of emoluments. Therefore, despite the fact that the Committee of the Regions has delivered its modified Regulation with a later date, we believe it is more appropriate to postpone discharge until October and, meanwhile, to produce a report which gives us better and clearer knowledge of the accounts of the Committee of the Regions. With regard to the European Ombudsman, I would like to say that he has cooperated magnificently with this Parliament's Committee on Petitions and has done good work, despite the scant resources at his disposal. Naturally, he will also receive our discharge. – Mr President, Commissioner, the participation of women in the peaceful resolution of conflicts is necessary, unfortunately, because of the effect these conflicts have on women’s lives and because women do not traditionally play an active role in such conflicts. The majority of refugees are women and children. Women are double victims of armed conflicts since they are also subjected to rapes and sexual abuse, which have sometimes been used as weapons of war. The serious problems which this causes women are increased, because they are then repudiated in their home communities. It has been seen that the participation of women in the resolution of conflicts and in the organisation of refugee camps can be extremely positive. We agree that rapes, forced pregnancy, forced sterilisation and any other type of sexual violence should be recognised as crimes against humanity, and legal texts should therefore be updated to protect women effectively. Furthermore, there must be financial resources to help women who are victims of this situation. Women’s participation in the diplomatic resolution of conflicts and in reconstruction initiatives would be of enormous help in achieving these objectives. The training of men in all aspects of gender-related issues would also be of real help to the situation. This report, which we consider to be important given the nature of the issue it deals with, is, nevertheless, too repetitive and contains certain elements which we do not like, but we recognise that it deals with a real problem which must be resolved and our group will therefore support it. . – Mr President, the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities requests that the Committee on Budgets incorporate the following conclusions into the motion for a resolution which it adopts: The Committee highlights the importance of appropriate training for women, moving beyond the traditional mould, promoting on-going training, specialisation and the integration of women into the phenomenon represented by new technologies, so that society may gain a large number of highly qualified women whose participation at all levels – business, political and social – results from both qualitative and quantitative criteria. It also requests that a new priority line be added to the e-Europe initiative, bearing in mind that the information society has enormous potential for women, not only with regard to training and access to knowledge, but also because of the opportunity of new jobs or new working methods which may help to reconcile family life. The Committee highlights the need for adequate appropriations to be provided and for the relevant comments to be added to the budget with regard to the strict application of the principle of mainstreaming which guarantees equal opportunities between men and women in the planning, implementation and assessment of all European Union projects and programmes. The Committee requests that the Commission support the Fifth Action Programme for equal opportunities, drawn up with the aim of overcoming the difficulties of the previous programme and asks that the principle of equal opportunities be applied in all Community policies. The Committee requests that a programme for employment be created, specifically targeting women and, to this end, requests that a budget line be created to finance it, with the fundamental aim of achieving equality between men and women in the workplace, not only by means of measures to protect that equality but also by means of special formulae, which will allow women to integrate fully in the labour market without jeopardising other aspects of their lives. The Committee stresses the importance of the collaboration between those non-governmental organisations and associations, whose activities complement the Community action programmes, to achieving the European Union’s aims with regard to equal opportunities between men and women. –  Mr President, I would like to start my speech by thanking and congratulating the rapporteurs for the work they have carried out, with a particular mention to Mr McCartin, who has done some magnificent work in a very short time, the result of which is a good definition of the form the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2000 should take. There are still some problems, however. Generally speaking, there is a unanimous call for the modernisation of public authorities and for the process to be further simplified, which would give rise to greater transparency and better public understanding as a whole, whilst bringing this important process closer to the EU citizens. Whilst we gave our support to the rest of the reports, I would like to make a particular reference to a report on which our group, the Group of the Europe People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, abstained – the Morgan report. With regard to this report, we do not agree with the rapporteur or with the committee outcome in several regards. We understand all that has been said in this House with regard to the irregularities of the Economic and Social Committee in 1996 and 1997. This period, when there were some administrators who did not do their job properly, when many investigations were carried out, when documentary proof was requested and that which was available was surrendered seems like a long time ago. It is true to say that today there are new administrators and new procedures; there is now no problem, as demonstrated by the 1998, 1999 and 2000 discharge. We do not believe that we can accept this slur on an organisation which cooperates with the other institutions, such as the European Parliament, particularly when the current administrators have done all they can to clear up all of these irregularities. We believe, however, that the best thing that we can do is to draw a line under this whole affair, put this case of poor administration behind us and to give the Economic and Social Committee a new opportunity to maintain a good relationship with Parliament in the future, a good relationship with Parliament and to properly represent all social administration – as it has up until now – and for it to be one of the most effective bodies in the European Union – one of the oldest, if not the oldest – of all those we are analysing today in this report. This is a discrepancy that we therefore hope will be cleared up when we vote in plenary. We also disagree with the rapporteur’s proposals with regard to the Council. We believe that the Council discharge should be approved. Foreign and defence policy are recent issues. We have to look at things from a different perspective. I believe that the rapporteur could take steps to facilitate a more appropriate solution by taking the opinions of the Group of the Europe People’s Party into account. If this is not the case, we will have to vote against the report. We hope that this matter is cleared up and that, if this is not the case, this part of the report can be sent back to the committee, in order to facilitate the development of the aforementioned foreign and defence policy for, as I say, we should not continue with the current approach, given that we have to achieve a better understanding and a better clarification of procedures carried out to date. Mr President, firstly I must thank Mrs Belém Roseira for taking part in this debate and for her interesting speech on the subject. I must also thank the Commissioner for being here and for her words. The various political groups generally agree on the easily verifiable observation that women are under-represented in the decision-making process, in both the political and the economic and social spheres. Nobody nowadays disputes that women should participate in political life, in the parties and in the institutions but it is not easy to agree on how this participation should be achieved. The equality between men and women which most affects the lives of women and therefore society in general is equality in work. This involves both equality in accessing work, which implies equality in training, and equal pay for the same work, so often defended and yet far from being achieved. We are convinced that the participation of women in the decision-making process will be beneficial to society as a whole. Women always have a different viewpoint from men. This serves to enrich and complete the picture of the best solutions to the problems in daily life which people like us, who are dedicated to active politics, undertake to solve. The difficulty lies in finding the right solution to allow women to have a greater presence in positions of responsibility and therefore in decision making. In some countries of the European Union a compulsory quota formula has been adopted which immediately produces a more equal presence of women. However, this is not always the best solution as there are not always enough women ready to enter a difficult and competitive world which they regard as essentially masculine because it has traditionally been reserved for men. Women are not participating in political parties and in the working and social world at a level of fifty per cent. The real percentage is much lower and it is this participation at the grassroots which we must promote in order to ensure a greater presence of women. There must also be a clear and real will to allow more women, who are ready and able, to assume responsibilities and commitments in political life and therefore in the decision-making process. There is no clear agreement within the PPE-DE Group in support of the compulsory quota system. Some Members have even come out against this. Personally, I would not want to feel like a quota, to think that I was in a particular job because I was a woman. This is a feeling which men will never have and it is an important difference. – Mr President, Commissioner, as members of this Parliament’s Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, we are extremely concerned about the situation of women in the Mediterranean countries, which was so well described by Mrs Kratsa in her report. Widespread illiteracy – especially in certain countries, as the percentages she presents indicate - early school leaving, without achieving a level of study which prepares them for later life, and a lack of participation in the labour market – especially amongst young women - are factors which, together with poverty and marginalisation, above all affect women in the majority of cases. This is the case despite the cooperation agreements, which contain many clauses, but never make it very clear that the situation of women should be taken into account amongst the objectives, and that the promotion of women and their access to better levels of personal well-being and to the labour market must also be amongst those objectives, so that they can pursue their own professions. In these areas, health problems are one of the most serious situations they face, not only through a lack of healthcare, but also because of a lack of prevention. These problems affect the whole population in general, but particularly women. This is particularly surprising, given that we know the MEDA programme has had problems in this House, because not even half of what was intended has been implemented. The MEDA programme, which is aimed at cooperation programmes in the Mediterranean areas, in particular the Southern Mediterranean, would be a wonderful instrument for creating specific programmes for women, aimed at promoting the role of women and increasing the living standards of women, which would be an advantage to the whole population, since we all know how important women are in the least-developed societies and, in particular, in traditional societies, where women bear the greatest responsibility for the family which, furthermore, usually includes a large number of children. By means of the Euro-Mediterranean Forum of Women Members of Parliament we are well aware of the situation of these women, and we know what they expect from Parliament and the European Union. We therefore have the obligation to draw attention to these facts so that their needs may be met. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the magnificent work she has carried out on such a serious problem. The trafficking in women is having a very great impact, especially in the border countries of the European Union, where mafias are forming which deceive women with promises of employment and a better life, and which lead them eventually into prostitution and, in many cases, into situations which can only be described as slavery. This is a phenomenon related to our current society, in which immigration is beginning to cause a serious problem, since we are seeing significant movements of people who are seeking the kind of welfare society which we enjoy in the majority, or practically all, of the European Union countries. This situation requires a series of new measures, most importantly aiding victims and prosecuting the people involved in the trafficking in women and children – since it is not just a problem for women, but children as well – for sexual exploitation. Amongst the measures proposed in this report are basically aid to victims and the request that Member States amend their legislation in a way which will allow quicker and more coordinated action amongst the various countries in order to resolve this very serious problem. The victims do not only require material aid, but also legal assistance – because we are generally talking about people with no documentation, with no options and who are living in fear and need help – which, at the same time, protects their identity and guarantees that they will not suffer even worse problems if they return to their countries of origin. The different countries of the European Union must harmonise their legislation in this respect and implement sufficient measures to help these victims. The trade in sex is increasing at an alarming rate. Women and children are involved. I believe that the media should also aid this process, because we are seeing more and more adverts in the press – sometimes in the very serious newspapers – behind which lies the trafficking in women and exploitation. However, it is not only through legal assistance and through protecting the victims that we must address the problem, but also through information campaigns, mainly in the countries of origin, so that these women know what they are really exposing themselves to, since the majority of them are being deceived and do not realise the hell they are about to walk into. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate Mrs Smet on this own-initiative report, which was so necessary and which she has produced in a very professional way, because she has a profound knowledge of the problem and has done a lot of work on it. But despite the fact that it is a very good report which attempts to study each of the points relating to inequality of pay between men and women, today we are facing a deep-seated problem to which we see no solution. It is more difficult for women to find work than it is for men, they have more difficulties in terms of training and professional promotion and they have lower salaries than men. But this does not only affect women who have been in the labour market for some time, but it also affects young women who are very well prepared, in many cases better prepared than men, who do brilliant work and who receive lower salaries than their male colleagues. There is no justification for it whatsoever, there is no legislation which allows it in any of the countries of the European Union but, despite all this, it is a reality which we are facing and which we have no idea how to solve. Social partners, both company organisations and unions, probably have a large role to play in resolving this problem. I am sure that, if there were more women in the leadership of these organisations, the issue would probably have been dealt with a long time ago. It is very regrettable that, while we are combating many other types of discrimination which are sometimes difficult to demonstrate, we have still not been able to resolve this one which is so obvious, which is reflected in the figures which appear on everybody’s payslips every month. I believe that the fact that women’s work is undervalued, that their work has always been considered subordinate to men’s work, that it has always been thought that they are not capable of holding top positions, are prejudices which are still present in society’s mentality, which hinder equality, professional access and greater promotion for women. I would ask the Commissioner, Mrs Diamantopoulou, to seek some initiative which will contribute to resolving this problem. If in a Member State of the European Union somebody suffering discrimination presents a case and wins it, if they work in the public sector, their greatest problem will be confronting the dirty looks of their colleagues, but if they work in the private sector, sooner or later it will lead to them leaving their job. This means that many women do not even use the legal resources available to them. – Mr President, Commissioner, by means of this report presented by Mrs Theato, Parliament is calling on the Convention to include a modification in Article 280 allowing for the creation of a European Prosecutor. At the heart of this issue lies the concern to protect the financial interests of European taxpayers. For some time the European Parliament has been calling for the creation of a European Prosecutor with competences relating to the Union’s interests. It is important to point out the existing differences between the Member States, which result in a lack of efficiency. We must ensure greater European cooperation and move forward with the creation of a European judicial area. The role of the European Prosecutor would be to tackle cross-border fraud by means of the adoption of specific rules making it possible to combat that fraud, including the definition of crimes. The new Constitutional Treaty must make the basis for this European Prosecutor clear, and it should be based on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, resolving the problems caused by the fragmentation of the current European judicial system. We must achieve a transparent system which preserves the balance between efficiency and the investigation procedure, in the event of cross-border crime, and respect for fundamental rights, with coherence and cooperation between the existing structures: OLAF, Eurojust, Europol. The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has presented certain amendments aimed at taking this clarification further, and I would therefore ask the other groups to support them. I would finally like to stress this report’s aim of contributing to the constitutional process under way so that we might clarify this issue of the European Prosecutor, which is enormously important for the future of the Union. I must congratulate Mrs Theato, who has done an enormous amount of work, which has not been easy, and I hope she will achieve the proposed objective. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Fabra Vallés, on the report he has presented to us. It is a rigorous, clear and very focused report, which provides us with precise information on how the budget has been implemented. The most striking aspect of this report is, once again, the significant budgetary surplus for 2001: 16%. It is a very high percentage, as the previous speakers have been repeating, especially if we analyse it in detail and realise that, of the Structural Funds, just 70% has been implemented and that the SAPARD budget has barely been implemented at all, despite the fact that it is an enormously important instrument for the new countries of the European Union. A similar thing is also happening in the case of agricultural policy. With regard to the reliability of the accounts that the Commission has presented, the Court’s report considers them to be adequate and, amongst the recommendations it makes, I would like to stress the one relating to the accounting system. As in previous years, the Court believes that actions should be taken to modify the current system in order to improve it. And given that this issue has led to some controversy – excessive controversy in my opinion – it would be desirable for the Commission to take very good account of the recommendations for modernisation of the accounting system and to make it as transparent as possible as soon as possible. I believe it is also necessary to point out the reference to the internal reform of the Commission and the slowness with which it is taking place. This is no doubt due to the fact that it is a complicated and ambitious process, but we should also remember that it is a necessary reform, and we therefore hope that the Commission will take very good account of the recommendations made to it. I do not wish to elaborate on the previous speeches. Practically all the Members who are speaking agree on the concerns in this report and the clarity with which they have been presented and I therefore believe that the ball is in the Commission’s court. I would like to congratulate Mr Fabra Vallés once again. There is absolutely no doubt that his experience as a former member of the Committee on Budgetary Control has been a great help to him in carrying out his work. We would like Mr Barnier to tell us how long it will take the Commission finally to respond to this demand, which is of genuine concern to the Spanish people, and in Aragón in particular. –  Mr President, the Group of the Europe People’s Party is of the opinion that Mrs Morgan’s approach, introducing last-minute changes, is not the best way to deal with such an important report. The Council has undertaken to provide a reply on Friday. Given the importance of this report, it would therefore be wisest to refer it back to the committee. This would allow for further reflection, taking account of the Council’s response, with a view to reaching the best possible solution. I urge Mrs Morgan to request that the report be referred back to the committee. I have already tried to convince her of the need for this. The PPE-DE Group will not give way on this point. It is opposed to the oral amendment. – Mr President, Commissioner, we have here the annual report, presented by the Commission, to analyse the progress made with regard to equal opportunities for men and women in the European Union in the year 2000. We are pleased to see that the employment rate for women has risen, albeit only slightly, but we still notice that women’s jobs are, on the whole, part-time, unstable and offer less opportunity for promotion. We have not been able to achieve equal pay for the same jobs. The differences are still very significant, and although we have made some progress in reconciling professional and family life, we have not been able to achieve greater task sharing within the family, which would allow women to dedicate themselves more professionally to their work. When we consider that women need help, our thoughts turn to mothers, young women with small children, and we believe that we can resolve these problems by setting up crèches. Another very common phenomenon is that older people are now increasingly living with the rest of their family, people these same women have to care for, disabled people, perhaps, which means that housewives, these same women, have an increased workload. We do not on the whole take into account the fact that social assistance is also needed, such as day centres, that would make it easier for women to go to work. We notice that women have not made great progress with regard to the society of the future, that is to say, new technologies or the information society. Only 20% of women participate in this sector and this is something that we should promote, making sure that they can have access to lifelong training in this area, since the jobs of the future will rely heavily on the society built around these new technologies. There is a very noticeable absence of women in managerial positions, in companies, associations, political parties and in public institutions. We repeatedly call for increased participation of women in these jobs, a better balance between men and women, but we still notice a difficulty in achieving the presence of women in decision-making posts. Therefore, we call for innovative measures and specific actions aimed at better representation for women in all areas of employment, in the professional field, with better task-sharing between men and women, and improved reconciliation between professional and family life. We must monitor compliance with the Community objective of equality between men and women in programmes financed by European funds, pursuant to the Treaty, and to promote a greater participation of women in decision-making posts. These objectives will also be taken into account in the EU enlargement process, monitoring the incorporation of the Community acquis into the national legislations of candidate countries. Domestic violence and poor treatment and exploitation of women is still a very serious problem and an area in which we need to continue working in order to help victims and eradicate, where possible, the causes of these phenomena, such as poverty and insecurity. As we can see, there is still much work to be done. There are still very few women working in managerial positions, little representation of women in the labour market and, most importantly, we are not yet at the stage where women get equal pay for the same work. I believe, therefore, that we need to call on the Commission and the institutions to closely monitor this situation in order to ensure that the objective of equality is realised as soon as possible. Mr President, it was made clear during yesterday’s debate that there are certain parts of this report, which expressly refer to OLAF, which are being removed from it on the recommendation of the Legal Services since they are not admissible, and these parts are therefore not being voted on. – Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, the incorporation of women into the labour market means that at some time their working life will coincide with a pregnancy, which sometimes means that they are obliged to take additional leave so as not to endanger their own health or the health of the unborn child. Pregnancy is a natural state for women which society must respect, defend and protect. Society must care for working women in particular by ensuring that they remain in their jobs. The incorporation of women into the workplace is a reality which cannot be reversed and women cannot be put in a situation of having to chose between having children and keeping their job because of the complications which a pregnancy may entail. The ageing of the population, together with the low birth-rate in the European Union, means that this is an issue of enormous importance for all social operators. As important as the protection of pregnant women is provision for breast-feeding, which is beneficial to the health of both mother and child. The protection of maternity and breast-feeding cannot be considered as a form of unequal treatment between men and women, since maternity is exclusive to women and it is women who must be protected, independently of the fact that some parental leave can be granted to men. The Member States must deal with the possible negative effects of this directive by making it easier for companies to employ young women by exempting them from the social costs during parental leave. The directive must include a minimum leave of 20 weeks, with an obligatory period of at least eight weeks after giving birth. A minimum salary of 80% must be guaranteed, with no loss of pension rights. The ban on dismissal during pregnancy must be strictly complied with. In no circumstances must pregnancy be a cause for discrimination against women. –  Mr President, Commissioner, President of the Court of Auditors, I should like to start by thanking Mr Fabra Vallés for the excellent report he has presented. I should also like to thank the whole Court for its ongoing work. The Committee on Budgetary Control depends on this work to allow it to discharge its responsibilities. We find it very useful indeed to be able to study and analyse the reports forwarded to us by the Court of Auditors. The annual report presented to the House today is of particular importance. I should like to focus on specific issues in that report. These include reform of the Commission, the responsibilities of the authorising officers, internal control and the introduction of a service of internal auditing. I believe they are key to improving the functioning of the European Commission and to better implementation of its budget. Internal control and following up reform are the most vital of the aforementioned issues. I shall come back to them later. I also believe that all the analysis of enlargement is very significant. This includes an account of the remaining deficiencies in the structures and in the implementation of the Community . Nonetheless, some progress has been made in this regard. Shortcomings in the implementation of pre-accession instruments are also detailed. Once again, significant improvement has been recorded but the overall situation remains most unsatisfactory. Indeed, many of the shortcomings and deficiencies we are confronted with in those countries could perhaps have been avoided had there been a greater commitment to those instruments and had there been a greater effort to ensure that they functioned more effectively. I shall now turn to budgetary management. The surplus remains considerable. It is less than it was, which represents some progress, but the fact that such a sizeable surplus still has to be dealt with is cause for considerable concern. As has been stated in the House, this may well prove to be the responsibility of the Member States. Nonetheless, the European Commission should exercise greater control to prevent such a situation arising. It represents an obstacle to effective implementation of Community programmes. All this relates to one of the issues considered in greater detail in the Court’s report for this year. I refer to shared management with the Member States, and in particular to the EAGGF and the Structural Funds. Failure to implement has been most marked in these areas. I believe this calls for particular attention and I hope it will receive it both throughout this year and in the course of our current deliberations on discharge for the year 2002. Controls by the Member States must improve, as should the percentage of expenditure. We have stressed this on a number of occasions. I should also like to emphasise the need for a more detailed study of the reform. A more careful study must also be made of how it stands at present, of its possible shortcomings and of appropriate changes, should any prove necessary. Reform is essential if management of the European Commission is to become more flexible. Serious shortcomings have been noted. They are due to the longstanding in-house culture. As has been apparent today, a particular attitude prevails amongst officials. This means Commissioners are sometimes required to assume responsibility. Obviously, in the fullness of time Commissioners reach the end of their mandate and are succeeded by others full of good intentions and ideas. It should be understood that structural change and full and complete implementation of the reform are essential to capitalise on the good will and good intentions of these Commissioners. As I conclude, I should also like to mention that bringing the European Development Fund under the Commission’s control and management would be a significant step forward. It would also be helpful to have it within the scope of this committee’s budgetary control. – Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your reply, although I regret the fact that this working group has taken so long to meet, since this matter is of the greatest importance. We trusted this Commission, from the outset, to begin work on all issues relating to greater equality for men and women. I hope that, in the future, things will change and meetings will become frequent, because there are many issues which require the attention of the Commission in order to speed up and conclude, as quickly as possible, those measures which will promote greater equality between men and women. – Mr President, Commissioner, we have here today a proposal to amend the directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion and working conditions. The modifications are presented taking into account the Treaty of Amsterdam and the rulings of the Court of Justice in recent years. The basic idea is to adapt the directive to social reality and to take up the demands of women to solve the problems of different treatment in the workplace. For the first time it is considered that sexual harassment in the workplace is discrimination on the grounds of sex. We request preventive measures and measures to help women whose working lives and professional careers are damaged due to sexual harassment. It should be highlighted that the amendments introduced give support to women regarding pregnancy and maternity, guaranteeing that they can return to their jobs and benefit from any improvements that may have taken place during their absence. The positive action measures to balance out their representation in the different employment sectors will also be effective. Women, especially younger women, now have a high level of professional qualifications, but this is not reflected throughout their working lives, as in general they are in lower-qualified posts that do not enable them to fully achieve their professional expectations. The directive will help solve these problems, but it is the Member States, through their national legislation, which ultimately need to ensure that women can work full-time without their personal or family lives being badly affected as a result. Those of us who think that we need to support the family know that it is essential to start by supporting women in order to enable them to reconcile family and working life as a principle of Community legislation. I have to say that it has genuinely been difficult working on this proposal, but we have made an effort to highlight the points of agreement and the objectives of the directive over and above the logical differences between different political groups. – Mr President, Commissioner, as has already been said, this programme is the result of analysing the success of DAPHNE I, which has been an enormously successful programme. It has been a very positive programme, very well executed, with very satisfactory results, and the only negative point we see is its financial insufficiency, since there was only EUR 20 million for four years. It is true, though, that at times we have had annual supplements, which have helped to finance some other projects. This programme is based above all on the prevention of domestic violence, on combating domestic violence through prevention and education, with a view to preventing domestic violence from taking place and helping its victims. It is therefore very important to take action agreed amongst the Member States because, although it continues to be a private issue, a family issue, it also has repercussions for relations between different countries as a result of the exploitation of women and children by organised mafias who work internationally. As was pointed out in the mid-term report on the previous programme, the cooperation of the media in terms of the way they report the news, the way they report on domestic violence taking place in society, is very important. The treatment of this phenomenon by certain television programmes, certain films and by advertising is very important. Particular emphasis should be placed on all of these issues because they have an influence on the awareness of society and on the way this horrendous phenomenon is reported. It is also essential that the public institutions participate together with the NGOs, in particular the local institutions, where they can do extremely important work. We have seen that until now there has been very little participation. It was introduced in the previous programme and we hope it will increase with this one. Another essential innovation is the right to remove the aggressor from the family home, and this has been introduced into certain national legislations, which are competent to do so. In other countries this is being prepared and we hope that it will soon be a reality in the whole of the European Union, because the victim must be protected. The victim should not have to flee, should not have to hide, should be able to remain in their home, in their own environment, with sufficient protection and far away from the aggressor. The DAPHNE II Programme takes up important suggestions which have been made as well as the experience of the DAPHNE I Programme and we in the Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are going to support it through certain separate votes which we are going to request. Despite the fact that the greatest problem is the financial one, we agree with the proposal made by the Group of the European People’s Party in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities that the total contribution for the Programme should be EUR 50 million for the five years. We are doing this, moreover, because we know that the financial perspectives and enlargement do not allow for a greater contribution and we do not want this programme to go to conciliation. We are therefore going to do everything possible to ensure that it is approved before the end of the year and that the DAPHNE Programme can continue as it has until now. – Mr President, we are aware of the progress that has been made in recent years with regard to the situation of women, particularly the legislative progress, but there are still situations of real inequality in everyday life. The low level of representation of women in political and economic spheres and gender-related violence are two clear signs that structural discrimination against women is continuing. This programme will undoubtedly help to ensure that the concerns, needs and aspirations of women are taken into account in all policies. The current situation requires that positive action measures in favour of women be implemented. The objectives that the programme sets out in five specific areas will help to ensure that all the action taken will be associated with at least one of those areas. Participation in economic life, which women should enjoy under equal conditions to men, employment, which is the basis for all equality and integration, and achieving the 60% target proposed at the Lisbon Summit, would also solve other problems. The inclusion of this objective in all Community programmes, within the framework of the Structural Funds, should be effected in accordance with Community legislation. Equality in participation and representation, balance in the decision-making process, greater participation in political life, whatever the process adopted, in order to achieve an increase in the participation of women, until we reach the 40% figure proposed by the Commission. Equal access and full enjoyment of social rights for women and men, which would mean ensuring that the legislation is applied in the social sphere in terms of maternity leave, maternity protection, working time, employment contracts, etc. Equality between women and men in civil life, allowing women to fully enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms. We especially need to guard against and eradicate trafficking in women and domestic violence. We need to encourage a change in the roles and stereotypes associated with gender, which will also help to solve some of the other problems above. In relation to this objective we will support the organisation of awareness campaigns and a European Equality Week in cooperation with the Member States, as the Commission proposes. We think that it is very useful to create a web site, not only due to the increasing use of computerised media, but because this will help women to familiarise themselves more and more with this new world from which they must not be excluded. Something that we think is of particular importance is the evaluation of the programme … – Mr President, Mrs Péry, Commissioner, the reports that the Commission has drawn up on equal opportunities in 1997, 1998 and 1999 are very important documents and the reference to the Treaty of Amsterdam is a significant step forward. Articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, covering equal opportunities for men and women and Article 141 covering positive measures for employment are a guarantee for women that should take effect in all the policies of the European Union. We are aware that women do not participate sufficiently in the decision-making process in politics, business or unions. They have a much smaller share in the labour market than men, a difference that is particularly accentuated in some countries, especially in southern Europe. They do not receive the same pay for equal work, with the difference reaching almost 30 % in the private sector. We know that measures for combining family and working life particularly favour women, although research is still needed into the current situation of the family and the role that women play in it, which is no longer the traditional role, because society has changed a great deal, and at the same time, so has family structure. It is essential that research should be carried out on the real situation of women in the various Member States in order to guide the policies that need to be made if we are to achieve greater equality between men and women. In order to integrate gender policies into all programmes, we must be aware of the situation from which we are starting and the objectives that we wish to achieve with particular policies. Because what really count are the achievements and the advances in the situation of women. We are aware that the majority of unemployment in the European Union is among women. In order to achieve full employment, therefore, we need to have positive policies directed at women, which will consist both of creating jobs and of preparing women for the new jobs – information society, new technologies – in which they can play an entirely equal role to men. The percentage of women in work in the European Union is much lower than that in the United States and Japan, a level that only some northern European countries come close to. If we take into account the candidate countries, the problem becomes more serious as the levels of women workers in those countries are even lower. Therefore, the objective of equality between men and women should be included in all programmes. Women have decided that they wish to work, that they wish to make their work compatible with their family life. Women wish to take part in decision-making processes, in politics, unions, and business, and we know that the contribution of women is positive for everyone and for the progress of society as a whole. European Union policies should help them to take part in order to achieve greater equality between men and women. Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for having included this mini-debate on the agenda on International Women’s Day. It is traditional in all countries on this day to dedicate some kind of act or statement to the recognition of women’s work, equality between men and women and the fact that there is still much to be done in order to make this equality a reality. We are going to see this in the debates to follow. I would therefore simply like to appeal for Parliament’s approach to be maintained, as an example from an institution which is making progress on the road towards defending the rights of women. We will see in the debates on the reports to follow that there is still much to be done in order to achieve equality between men and women and in order to achieve equal recognition of work. Mrs Napoletano, we women do not always have to be demonstrating that we work better than men; we simply want men to recognise our work on an equal footing with that of their male colleagues. Mr President, Commissioner, the reason for the motion of censure, its signatories argue, is the scandal and the irregularities which have taken place in Eurostat. Everybody is aware that for some time we in the Committee on Budgetary Control have been working very hard to try to clarify this issue and resolve the problems stemming from it. It is true that the Commission took a long time to react, but it finally did so and implemented an in-depth reform and, so far, we believe that the results are satisfactory. It is true that the case is not closed, since a judicial procedure is underway. The majority of the political groups have therefore prepared a resolution which will be voted on during tomorrow’s sitting, precisely because we are still concerned about such an enormously important issue as fraud in Eurostat. We do not believe this issue to be closed, and we believe we must monitor events very closely in order to prevent any repeat of it in the future, either in Eurostat or in any other Commission body. The resolution various groups will table tomorrow makes it very clear that Parliament is vigilant, is carrying out its duty and is exercising the control conferred on it by the Treaty as a fundamental Community institution throughout the procedure. There is no justification for this motion; it is a purely electoral issue for the signatories, who have in common, amongst many other things, their anti-European sentiment and militancy, their Euroscepticism and their constant campaign against the European institutions. We therefore believe that this motion is inappropriate. We in the European Parliament do our work, we have done so seriously and rigorously, and we are going to continue to do so, and we do not believe that a group of Members who call themselves anti-European and Eurosceptic are the right people to defend the transparency and smooth functioning of the European institutions. In our work, we have often insisted that it is necessary to trust in the control of the Commission’s management, as we have done this morning, while making it clear that we are still concerned about the problem of Eurostat, and we therefore believe it is entirely inappropriate for small groups in this House - whose record and approach in relation to this issue have been very well-known from the outset and have never changed - to try to use this issue for electoral party political ends. They have taken no notice of explanations or solutions, nor any type of suggestion. The position of the People's Group is very clear and we will continue to work to ensure the openness and transparency of the European institutions and also to strengthen them. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am truly grateful for your full answer to this question on the programmes which, as you have pointed out, have been implemented. However, the question stressed the fact that this is a problem which has recently become more serious, precisely because of the ease with which our borders can be crossed. This movement of people basically originates in the candidate countries of the East. The majority of cases involve women in illegal situations. This immigration is taking place in the worst possible conditions and these women are defenceless victims of every type of marginalisation and hardship. I believe that an effort has been made over recent years, but I must insist that it requires special attention now and we must prevent such problems in the future, since it is possible that this problem will become even more acute. . – Mr President, Commissioner, in this report we are analysing the DAPHNE programme, its implementation, its achievements and its failings. It is a programme to combat violence against women and children, essentially in the domestic environment. This violence is a serious violation of their fundamental rights. Violence against women results from the unequal relationship between men and women and the sex discrimination which exists in society. The fight against violence requires an integrated approach which combines prevention, dealing with aggressors and support for victims. The European Commission has carried out an exhaustive and rigorous mid-term assessment report on the programme, which allows us to make proposals for the future with a view to achieving the objective of ‘zero violence’. Violence against women and children takes place in all countries, regardless of class, race or level of education. This violence is an obstacle to achieving equality and perpetuates inequalities. We must point out the insufficient budgetary contribution to this programme, which has only allowed a third of the projects presented to be funded. We must pay special attention to the prevention of violence, but also to the treatment and rehabilitation of aggressors in order to prevent re-offending. It is essential to create teaching programmes aimed at preventing violence, to be used in schools and adult education centres. We must involve all sectors of society in the fight against violence, and in particular the media, as opinion formers and instruments for the transmission of values, so that, by means of the media, a non-stereotypical image of women may be transmitted, also of children and of victims in general. The way news about acts of violence is transmitted is also essential to the subsequent evaluation of them. The NGOs have played an important role in the fight against violence, but the public institutions must also be involved – so far only 10% of the programmes have been implemented by them – as well as universities and study and research centres. We need more information on real violence, since we only have knowledge of a small proportion of it. We must have common indicators and a common database. The Member States should update their legislation so that they have more appropriate instruments for combating violence. In certain countries there already exists the right to remove the aggressor from the shared home, with the corresponding accompanying measures. The victims must be protected and we must ensure that it is not they who have to flee and hide. Better police training in this field would be of great help. The DAPHNE Programme should continue after this one ends, since the problem unfortunately persists and we know that it is difficult to eradicate, and therefore actions taken to increase awareness in society and try to change the sexist mentality which still persists must be welcomed. Amongst these measures we propose a European Year for combating violence against women and children. Finally, I would like to point to the need to change the legal basis of the Programme. This is the right time to do so, since the European Convention which is reviewing and updating the Treaty has the opportunity to modify it, and I would therefore affectionately ask Commissioner Vitorino, whose sensitivity towards all these problems we are well aware of, to insist, to apply pressure, to do everything humanly possible to introduce into the Treaty a legal basis which facilitates the fight against violence towards women and children throughout the European Union. I am aware of the difficulties involved in this, but I trust in your ability to achieve it. . – Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission proposal has the basic objective of encouraging cooperation between the Member States in terms of analysis, research and monitoring of employment policy, determining best practices and promoting the exchange and transfer of information and experiences. Thus, based on the need to support and develop the European Employment Strategy, the Commission is proposing a series of measures, which include analysis, research and cooperation between Member States on employment, which will be very helpful for achieving the new strategic objective established in Lisbon, which is to make Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, with more and better jobs and with greater social cohesion. We therefore fully support the Commission proposal, although I feel that it could be improved on some points which, broadly speaking, are as follows: firstly, and with regard to the planned Community measures, one of them supports a more strategic approach to employment in the Union, through analysis and evaluation of the factors that explain employment tendencies, the general political framework, etc. On this point the Commission proposal does not envisage that the analysis and evaluation will be conducted in a specific way, for men and for women, something that I consider to be essential if we take into account that unemployment in Europe is largely among women. It is not excessive to say that, if employment among women were not taken into account, in some regions of the Union there would even be full employment. With this in mind, and given that employment incentive measures must be one of the key tools for developing equal opportunities, we need to consider what women’s employment needs are. We therefore need to consider which are the studies aimed at offering more childcare and social assistance in the home. In this respect, we need to ensure that there is sufficient supply of quality services, particularly when dealing with dependants, which in the majority of cases are the responsibility of women. We therefore need to encourage the incorporation of women into the labour market and encourage them to remain in it, with an equal distribution of family responsibilities between men and women. We need to take into account the reinsertion of women and, without any doubt, differentiating between the studies by sex would help us to understand the problems that this raises. – Commissioner, we are dealing with the annual report for 2001 on the progress and difficulties observed in the achievement of equal opportunities. The political measures implemented are being analysed but their consequences are not being assessed. The objective of this framework strategy is to guarantee that all the Commission’s policies take account of gender issues and analyse the repercussions of its activities on men and women. Once again we have to insist on the need to create more and better jobs between now and 2010, in accordance with the objectives set at the Lisbon Summit. We must insist on the need to guarantee equality between men and women in all political fields, in accordance with Article 3(2) of the Treaty. We must once again demand that indicators be produced on the structures for childcare, dependent persons and family assistance, as well as the differences in salary between men and women. The Barcelona European Council called on the Member States to eliminate the obstacles preventing women from fully participating in the labour market, in particular by creating crèches. Respect for and promotion of equality between men and women are part of the Community acquis and are therefore an essential condition for the new countries of the European Union. It is true that the Commission has made efforts to promote equality between men and women, but so far they have been insufficient. With regard to programmes funded with Structural Funds, it has been noted that the objective of equality has not been met, including in the Regulation referring to them. Even when certain programmes present it amongst their objectives, the results are not analysed and we know that this objective of equality is not really being met. The absence of women through balanced representation in decision-making bodies is significant, particularly social partners and other bodies. Additional efforts must be made so that the presence of women in decision-making bodies becomes a reality. It is cause for satisfaction that this issue has been included as a priority for 2003 and we hope that it yields positive results. It is very important that the Commission has included the integration of the principle of equality between men and women in external relations, and it must be present in all agreements with third countries. –  Madam President, Commissioner, before I start my speech I would like to inform Mr Bouwman that the company he was referring to is the Sintel company, which went bankrupt, forcing unemployment on a large number of its employees. However, several months ago the Spanish Government took on the responsibility of making backdated wage payments to Sintel’s employees, relocating or finding other such solutions for all those affected. I say this so that you may be fully informed, Mr Bouwman. Now I will move on to my speech on this report. The document we are debating refers to the proposal for amending Directive 80/987/EEC on the approximation of national laws relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer. Mr Bouwman has, in fact, given a very clear example of this situation. The amendment aims to take into account changes to insolvency law in Member States and the need for consistency with other Community directives on labour law already adopted. All of this should be based on a political will to provide employees with a minimum degree of protection under Community law in the event of their employer becoming insolvent. The difficulties involved in achieving the intended objective of the Directive are, in my opinion, threefold: firstly, the concept of insolvency; secondly, the complexity of the arrangement introduced to allow a time and quantity limits to be placed on the guarantee; thirdly, insolvency cases with a cross-border dimension. With the aim of clarifying the situation, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has once again tabled two amendments: No 16, which includes cases of externalisation or similar, subcontracts, the ‘fake self-employed’, etc., all of which could conceal a true employment contract. In our opinion, we need to reveal the truth before protective methods are implemented, to protect the salaried employee. To not do this would be to open the floodgates which would quickly exhaust the fund in question. Amendment No 17 clarifies the notion of protectable earnings from the corresponding national fund and prevents fraud. All of this is inherent to the protective nature of labour legislation and is inspired by the desire to clearly define the concepts needed for the fund to serve its purpose. This is a clarification of ideas which aids progress towards legal certainty and harmonisation. Regrettably, this is a case which, as we have recently witnessed with another Belgian company, is taking place in large companies, due to the restructuring of these companies and the relations which currently exist in the economic world. Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Bayona for the excellent work he has done on the presentation of this discharge of the general budget for 2002. This is an extremely important report which offers many suggestions that must be taken into account and in which, regrettably, the issue that has concerned us most over recent years in the Committee on Budgetary Control remains outstanding: fraud in Eurostat. This is why our group, the Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, with the support of the other groups, has promoted a resolution on this issue to make it clear before the end of this legislature that Parliament views this as a serious matter, that we are not satisfied with what the Commission has done so far, although we recognise it has made a great effort, but we want to know why this fraud took place and what mechanisms can prevent it from happening again in the future. That is our main interest. We do not want to get bogged down in other types of issue. We want an end to such fraud. As a parliamentary committee, we have a particular interest in auditing management and, fundamentally, in combating fraud. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate our Chairman, Diemut R. Theato, on the excellent work he has done leading a very difficult committee, the Committee on Budgetary Control. She has been able to lead a very diverse team, from very different groups, which at the end of this legislature has been able to find the appropriate moment to feel like a team, a team in which we agree more than we disagree and in which we are inspired by a common interest, which is that the Commission, the whole of the European Union, should function better and better, that it should spend more efficiently, that there should be the best possible control of spending for the benefit of the citizens. If the President will allow me, I would like to refer very briefly to the report by Mr van Hulten on Parliament. I agree with my fellow Members that it is a good report and that amongst all of us we have managed to produce a text which I believe will be widely supported tomorrow. – Mr President, Commissioner, the special session of the United Nations General Assembly, which will be held at the beginning of June under the banner ‘Women 2000: Gender equality, development and peace for the 21st Century’, will be of enormous importance to the situation of women. The monitoring of the application of the Beijing Action Platform reveals that the greatest concerns, in relation to the proposed objectives, are still education and training, power and decision making, health, poverty and violence. The social changes of recent years have affected women in a special way. The increase in the elderly population has had a great effect on the lives of women who, in general, when they are no longer looking after their children, have to look after their parents. Despite considerable progress in terms of the situation of women, there are still considerable differences, especially discrimination at work and different wages for the same job. The majority and, in many cases, all of the responsibility for domestic tasks falls to women. The situation of women with family responsibilities, combined with the difficulties in the labour market, have led to a term which is explicit as well as unfair: the feminisation of poverty. We still require initiatives which help to give women access to the labour market and allow them full professional development, to which end we will need to facilitate women’s ‘other’ work through nurseries and financial aid. Men will have to take more family responsibilities and adapt to a society which is constantly changing and which has modified their traditional roles. The information society requires increasing numbers of people with technological training, which women must get involved in, since this is an area for which they are particularly well-equipped. If the number of women involved in decision making were to increase, it would become easier to resolve the problems facing them. A lot of progress has been made, but there are still political and economic areas in which women are under-represented. Amongst the problems which women are unfortunately facing at the moment, we must mention the violence directed at them: domestic violence, armed conflict and trafficking in women, which has been increasing in recent years. This is a form of violence against their person, their fundamental rights and their dignity. The Treaty of Amsterdam provides for the integration of the objectives of equality into Community policies and, especially in Article 141, positive actions in the field of employment. Employment is usually also a solution to other problems of marginalisation, economic dependence, lack of personal freedom, etc. The fifth Community Action Plan will have to deal with the problems still existing through a budgetary provision which will allow programmes to be implemented in the most urgent areas. The cooperation of the media is essential to achieving these objectives. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to congratulate Mr Bösch on his complete report, which gives a thorough account of the incidences that occurred in 2001. The protection of the Community’s financial interests and the fight against fraud are crucial components in guaranteeing the rights of citizens in the European Union. The Group of the European People’s Party welcomes the almost 40% reduction in the total annual volume of fraud and irregularities between 2000 and 2001. This fell from EUR 2 028 million in 2000 to EUR 1 275 million in 2001. Fraud reduction has taken place in all spheres, except in the Structural Funds, where there has been an increase. We are unhappy, however, with the low recovery rate, which has fallen considerably. The Committee on Budgetary Control has on several occasions expressed its unhappiness with the poor functioning of the system and the need for its management to be improved. Our Group also hopes that the Commission will fulfil its commitment to a policy of zero tolerance with regard to internal fraud, and that it duly informs Parliament of developments made in the various cases in progress and in recently-opened investigations. The Group of the European People’s Party believes it to be crucial that the Accession Treaties take account of the candidate countries’ capacity for control and looks forward to hearing the Court of Auditors’ assessment of each of these countries’ financial control systems. We must recall, however, that knowing the control capacity of these countries is not enough, since, with enlargement, our new borders with Russia will mean a real danger of increased fraud, which will inevitably have repercussions for the Community’s financial interests. We cannot discuss the fight against fraud without referring to the future general reform of the Treaty establishing the European Communities, which is currently being discussed in the Convention and which is reflected in the amendments tabled by my Group. Following the publication of the Commission’s Green Paper on criminal-law protection of the Community’s financial interests and of the Convention’s proposal to reform Article 280 of the Treaty, the establishment of a new body is being proposed, one that will have the task of ensuring the protection of the Community’s financial interests: a European Prosecutor. With regard to both external fraud – perpetrated in the various Member States – and to internal – that is, institutional – fraud, we in Parliament, and specifically the Committee on Budgetary Control, look forward to hearing the response of the various Member States to the proposal for a European Prosecutor, since we are attempting to determine the most appropriate way of dealing with this body, particularly with regard to its competences and to a relationship that befits a body for coordination and assistance, such as Eurojust. Nevertheless, we would like the possible references that this report makes to the report on the European Prosecutor – for which Mrs Theato was responsible – to be made very clear and, to this end, probably before the vote tomorrow, my Group will table an amendment in the aim of preventing confusion arising between the reports by Mrs Theato and Mr Bösch. – Mr President, Commissioner, domestic work is the oldest work that women have carried out. This work has not been recognised or valued, either economically or socially. Today it is part of what we call the hidden economy and this has a negative effect on those who carry it out and also on states’ finances. However, it is a form of work with a flexible timetable, which is of great assistance in reconciling family life with professional life. Changes in family circumstances mean that this work is of increasing importance in the world of work, and it is therefore essential that this type of work be defined and that studies be carried out to assess the numbers of people involved. This is an area of work that must be fully recognised and that should be included in the directives on employment to regulate the social rights of the worker. The countries of the Union today have greatly differing situations, which should be standardised. The workers, mostly women, should be provided with access to training. The immigrant population is usually a significant group in this sector, and this requires special measures, such as specialised reception centres, which provide the necessary assistance. This initiative report is very timely, since it deals with a growing need within the labour market. Mrs Smet has done a wonderful job and of course we are going to support it. . –  Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, I would like to ask for Parliament’s support so that the amendments already approved by the Committee on Budgets may be definitively approved. They are not exactly what we had asked for, since in some cases the amount we had requested has been reduced but, on the whole, we are satisfied because we believe that there will be continuing concern to facilitate the promotion of women and equal opportunities by the following means: Information initiatives for the common agricultural policy – where women play an extremely important role, without recognition for their work – through the EQUAL programme which is intended to make it easier to employ women within the Community strategy for equal opportunities. This is the report that we examined yesterday and which, sadly, has been referred back to committee today. Secondly, the incorporation of women into the information society, which is extremely important for the future; financial assistance for women in Central and Eastern European countries, in the MEDA countries; the fight against sex tourism in third countries, where there is a huge problem which affects women in particular; and the promotion and defence of the fundamental rights and freedoms of women. We must also bear in mind that all this is related to the fight against domestic violence, which is taking place under the DAPHNE programme. All in all, we would like to see these amendments approved. We hope that this will be the case. I would like to cite another amendment related to women’s organisations: the committee approved an amount for the European Women’s Lobby. A group of MEPs then presented an amendment to the Committee on Budgets – which was approved – with a view to extending this budget heading to other women’s organisations in order to show our pluralist approach and respect for all options and all political affiliations in the European Union. We also hope that this heading will be approved. For this budget heading we in the committee had asked for a larger amount than was allocated in the end, but all in all, as I said before, we are satisfied and we are hoping for final approval. ,. – Mr President, the Committee on Women’s Rights expressed – and I thank the rapporteur, Mr Casaca, who has included them in his report – a series of considerations which I will point out. On the one hand, we are pleased with the efforts made by the Commission during 2001 to integrate the aspect of equal opportunities between men and women into the Union’s policies and particularly into new fields such as international trade, public contracts, asylum policy and the environment. This is a good way of working to achieve the objective of equal opportunities which, as you all know, is included in the Treaty as one of the objectives to be fulfilled in all Community activities. In this regard, I must point out, as other Members have done, the problems which have arisen in the management of the Structural Funds. I have been responsible for an initiative report on compliance with the objective of equality in the Structural Funds, since it is a very important programme which is unfortunately not being implemented adequately and which leaves out such important criteria as this equal opportunities criterion. We hope that in the future more initiatives will be adopted and the procedures will be simplified, so that these Funds are used appropriately in order to achieve this objective. We also believe it unacceptable that, although the European Social Fund has the established objective of 15% of total costs for the promotion of the employment of women, only 6% has been used for this purpose. Therefore, although 15% is not a particularly high percentage, we believe that the fact that not even half has been reached must be corrected in the future, since employment is always one of the most important instruments for the integration of men and women and for equality. We are also pleased with the implementation of the Daphne programme, which ended at the end of 2002 and whose new phase is now underway. We have expressed a series of considerations on the extension of the Daphne programme, which will be taken into account in the Commission’s report and in the new phase of this programme, which is so important in the fight against violence against women and which has brought such good results, on which I congratulate the Commission. Finally, we would like clear efforts to be made within the financial management of the Commission to channel a proportion of the budget for Community programmes towards equal opportunities between men and women. We hope that this will be taken into account during the next budgetary year. – Mr President of the Commission, a sorry story of child abuse in a Commission nursery has appeared in the Spanish press. This story came to light in 1997 and it would appear that the people involved have still not received their deserved punishment and that the Commission has still not initiated a thorough investigation, nor taken the contract away from the people who have it at the moment and who are responsible for the situation which has been created there. There is a series of irregularities in the granting of this contract, as well as irregularities in the operation of the nursery in question. The Commission knew that this was happening and has not resolved the problem, nor has it tried to resolve it, and the children, who are the most important concern, have not been sufficiently protected nor transferred to other people with suitable guarantees of care and attention. This is a deeply serious issue which, unfortunately, is appearing in the media far too frequently. Mr Prodi, what do you intend to do about it? Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, during the Taliban presence in Afghanistan, and before that, the situation of women has been horrendous. They have been marginalized, humiliated and persecuted. Furthermore, it has been instilled into their beliefs and their way of thinking that this was a normal situation, which makes change difficult. We clearly cannot accept the sale of girls, the continuing marginalisation and the lack of recognition of women’s human rights. Parliament therefore believes that the Spanish Presidency of the Union could do something more, create some special support programme for these women who have suffered particular marginalisation, because the current situation in Afghanistan cannot in reality be compared with the reconstruction of other war-torn countries. Could you expand on the answer which the President-in-Office of the Council has given us on this situation? – Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, the Assembly of the United Nations has once again offered an opportunity to demonstrate the progress made since the Beijing Conference, as well as the problems which remain and which need to be resolved. Education is still the most effective instrument for ensuring that women can freely exercise their rights and for allowing greater access to positions of responsibility, both in the workplace and in public life. Knowledge of new technologies has been considered to be of great importance in terms of allowing full participation in the society of the future. The media is of enormous importance as it can allow women’s voices to be heard, and can transmit an image, without stereotypes, which is committed to society and the quest for solutions to everyday problems. Women’s health is one of the priorities of the meeting’s final document, with special mention of the spread of Aids, especially in certain areas of the planet, which affects women in a particular way and requires special measures for prevention and treatment. One of the objectives is the eradication of domestic violence, which will be considered as a public issue and therefore subject to national legislation. Violence against women and girls will be punishable by law, which means that there will have to be legislative reforms in the countries where it is not yet considered a crime. Poverty particularly affecting women must be eradicated, and this is why the countries which have signed the agreement will send 0.7% of their GDP to development programmes aimed at eliminating what has come to be called the feminisation of poverty. Globalisation has generated new problems which particularly affect women, such as trafficking in human beings, prostitution and drug-trafficking, which should be combated so that women may live a dignified and free life in conditions of equality. All these objectives must be achieved in the next few years and, in order to ensure they are complied with, we are requesting a new meeting within the next five years. The fifth programme for equality promoted by the European Commission must serve to promote the position of women, to eliminate the remaining inequalities, integrating gender policies into all Community programmes. This meeting has therefore been of enormous importance in terms of making progress in the situation of women in all parts of the world. The European Union’s position, given that it has a higher level of development and, therefore, better conditions for women, must not allow us to forget the situation of women in other areas, where daily hardships are combined with malnutrition, extreme poverty and a complete lack of respect for their fundamental rights. Mr President, Commissioner, we must take pleasure in the fact that we have here today the Daphne II programme, which follows on from the previous Daphne I programme and takes up the recommendations made in the assessment report on Daphne I, for which I was rapporteur. The Daphne programme is aimed at preventing and combating all forms of violence against children, young people and women within the framework of a multidisciplinary approach and has contributed to creating greater awareness in the European Union of this extremely serious problem which regrettably affects the whole of society. The success has been noted of the previous programme, which has allowed us to introduce certain innovations into Daphne II, of which I would emphasise, firstly, the significant budgetary increase: we have risen from EUR 20 million to EUR 50 million, which, although it still seems insufficient, represents considerable progress; secondly, the exchange of good practices and experiences, particularly of preventive measures and help for victims, as well as studies and research; thirdly, the creation of educational instruments in schools, where we must begin to prevent violence and promote equality; finally, the introduction of training programmes for the professionals in question, such as lawyers, police, doctors etc., and also the development and implementation of rehabilitation programmes for aggressors, since sometimes aggressors leave prison and go back to attacking the victim, causing them further harm. This is an innovation which I believe to be very important for the future. We must also pay particular attention to prevention for the groups at greatest risk, such as disabled women or women in a special situation because they have been victims of violence previously. In other words, it is a programme which continues to insist on zero tolerance of violence against children, adolescents and women. I would also like to refer very briefly to the report presented by Mrs Bastos on reconciling work and family life. I must congratulate her on her very interesting and very in-depth work, which must form the basis of other work by the Commission, in order to be able to do something which really has an effect on the legislations of the Member States in terms of the reconciliation of work and family life. We must create conditions which help women to develop their professional lives without creating problems for their families, by means of appropriate modifications in terms of new part-time working contracts, bearing in mind that this must not create problems with social security contributions which may prejudice future benefits, with the creation of nurseries and of day centres for dependent persons, who are also generally the responsibility of women, as well as tax assistance and assistance for families with larger numbers of children. We must achieve better pay for women who, unfortunately, we know are still being paid less than men for the same work, and we must make progress on the Lisbon objectives so that a greater presence for women in the workplace becomes a reality. Equal conditions must not mean that women give up on family life, as often happens, or on motherhood and many other responsibilities. We must bring about a change which leads to greater reconciliation and shared responsibilities with men on an equal footing. . –  Mr President, today we are examining a report which stems from the decision taken on 8 April 2003 to postpone granting discharge for the Committee of the Regions’ accounts. This happened because we received information at the eleventh hour about certain irregularities in the accounts. When the report had virtually been completed, we were informed that the accounts could contain irregularities; the informant was concerned that there could be irregularities in the reimbursements of travel expenses and daily allowances and potentially some instances of fraud. In view of this suspicion, we in the Committee on Budgetary Control asked for the discharge of the accounts to be postponed in order to carry out a detailed audit and to be able to establish a full picture regarding the suspected irregularities. The audit was eventually carried out by the Court of Auditors, who looked at the general budget of the Committee of the Regions and at the financial and administrative management of that budget. The results of the audit did not identify any serious irregularities. At the same time, OLAF produced a report regarding the possibility of fraud in the Committee of the Regions and did not find any evidence of fraud for personal gain or any intentional fraud on the part of Committee of the Regions staff. A few internal administrative deficiencies were identified, but were of little real significance, particularly given that between 2001, the period in question, and our meeting, the Committee of the Regions had amended its own internal rules and introduced a number of changes specifically designed to prevent the kind of irregularities that could have occurred in the past, and also promised to change the internal administration and provide training for staff to prevent any irregularities occurring. We have to acknowledge – and I personally have to state – that the Committee of the Regions has made an effort to clarify its internal organisation so as to improve accounting and it has produced regulations to prevent problems or duplications when reimbursing travel expenses and daily allowances for members of the committee. The fraud that was actually identified was of very little significance: a small amount, most of which has been cleared up, and the problem of the tiny sum still requiring clarification is currently being resolved in collaboration with a former Committee member. We therefore saw a rapid response on the part of the Committee of the Regions at all times, and a willingness to work with us, with Parliament, to improve compliance with the rules, and to achieve greater transparency and to allow us to feel that this problem was being addressed. In view of this, I recommend that Parliament approves the report I am presenting today on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control and approves the discharge for the Committee of the Regions accounts together with the recommendations we have included in the report. Following advice from Parliament’s Legal Service, we have deleted from the report all specific references to the OLAF report. It seemed inappropriate to refer to a report which, by its very nature, is confidential. These quotes were therefore taken out immediately and we will not even be voting on whether they should be omitted – instead they will not be considered admissible, which does not alter the report significantly. As regards the amendments that have been submitted, I can tell you that I support Amendments Nos 3, 4, 5 and 6, but oppose all the others. I hope you will study this report carefully. It is the fruit of the labour and cooperation of most of the Committee on Budgetary Control. At all times we sought to improve accounting in the Committee of the Regions – both in our own interest as Members of Parliament and in the interest of the committee itself, given its importance as one of the European institutions. – Mr President, like my fellow Members, I am going to insist on what has been said in relation to the work carried out on the reports this year. And I would therefore also like to congratulate the main rapporteur, Mr Casaca, as well as the other rapporteurs, Mr Blak, Mr Sørensen, Mr Staes and Mrs Langenhagen, who have done excellent work, each within the field corresponding to them. I have personally been able to observe how we rapporteurs, who are obliged to carry out the discharge of the various fields, are subject to external pressure, are put under pressure from the political groups to work in a particular direction. We have to see past this pressure in order to do rigorous and objective work, and I believe the various rapporteurs have achieved this this year. Very serious problems have arisen, particularly in Mr Casaca’s report with regard to accounting, the Sapard programme and Eurostat. The rapporteur has therefore had to make a special effort to ensure that solutions are found which, while granting discharge to the Commission, lead to effective solutions in the future. I believe this has required important work which Mr Casaca has done excellently and I would therefore insist that we must congratulate him on it. The other rapporteurs have also suffered external pressures. During this year we have been subjected to pressure from the press with articles, sometimes true and sometimes manipulated, which have attempted to influence our work. Commissioner, I do not like this work to be influenced, I like to have my own criteria, to make my own studies, to analyse what is happening properly and I must therefore thank the Commission for having cooperated enormously in order to clarify all these issues, so that the opinion issued by Parliament is really its own. This is the approach I have taken in my work and my group is therefore going to grant discharge to the Commission this year. In the various reports we have followed the same criterion because this work requires a high degree of responsibility from Parliament and must include a very rigorous analysis. We defend the interests of the European citizens but, above all, we must bear in mind the consequences of what is decided in this Parliament. Responsibility and rigour when it comes to carrying out the work must therefore be imposed. This is how I have worked, and I believe the other rapporteurs have done the same and therefore, although it has been a particularly complicated and difficult year – as all we members of the committee know – we have been lucky enough to have the leadership of our President, who has shown great responsibility at all times, and I believe that the final result will be satisfactory. . – Mr President, this initiative report which we are debating today in Parliament is being produced at the request of the Euro-Mediterranean Forum for women Members of Parliament and is part of the general concept of globalisation which is going to be examined throughout this weekend at the meeting which begins tomorrow in Malta. The European Parliament took responsibility for producing this report on the effects of globalisation on female immigrants. Emigration is an ancient phenomenon but it has recently taken on some new characteristics. It is not only men who emigrate, with the women then using regrouping to later reunite their children with the husband, but rather the woman herself is now the emigrant. The woman is the head of the family and it is she who seeks, by changing country, by coming to the European Union, a better personal situation, a better future for herself and her family. The woman comes as a person seeking opportunities that are not available in her country of origin. In general, she works in the service sector, she does not have a high level of training and she finds herself in a vulnerable situation as a result of being both an immigrant and a woman. She usually does work which the nationals of the various countries do not want, but which are necessary for the economy to operate properly. Recently, female immigrants have also been important for maintaining jobs, for bolstering the active population, given the ageing of the population in certain Member States, and for future prospects. These women do not come temporarily in order to resolve a problem, but they come determined to stay, to start a new life in a country which they believe is going to accept them. In the majority of cases they come without sufficient information. They have often been deceived and are victims of mafias that traffic in human beings, from which they are unable to escape, in many cases ending up in prostitution. This lack of information is one of the most important aspects that we highlight in this report. These women must be aware of the state of the job market, the legal requirements, what their living conditions will be and what they must provide in order to work legally in the country they are heading for. There are also cases of highly qualified women who have to do work which is not appropriate for their training. There are situations of abuse, resulting from their state of vulnerability in a country with whose language and legislation they are not familiar, living isolated in a world which is difficult for them. We want these women to live in a legal situation with decent employment contracts so that they cannot become victims of exploitation. This means that they must be provided with greater information in their countries of origin. We therefore call for offices to be set up in order to resolve these problems so that these women may come fully informed about the work they are going to do. I must point out that in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, certain amendments have been introduced into the report which neither I, as rapporteur, nor my group, agree with. They refer to the concept of ‘Euro-Mediterranean citizenship’. This concept raises legal problems. There is no precedent for this concept in any report or any declaration either by this Parliament or by the national parliaments. Citizenship is a national competence of the Member States and I believe that introducing this concept into the report adds little and could, in fact, create legal problems. We have therefore requested a split vote because we would like to remove this concept from the report so that we can support it without problems. If it is retained, I think it will be very difficult for us to vote in favour of the report, which would be unfortunate since the report has some very positive aspects for women and is greatly needed given the situation in which the majority of these women find themselves. I would like to ask you to reconsider so that, by removing these terms, we can have a report which is approved by the whole House. – Mr President, Commissioner, this report deals with the balanced participation of men and women in the decision-making process by analysing the different situations and the lack of participation of women. We always point out that we women make up half of the population and therefore we need greater participation so that women can feel duly represented. However, it is important to point out that the incorporation of women into public life and the labour market in prominent positions is very recent. And we should also point out that it has happened thanks to the efforts of women themselves, who have had to overcome enormous difficulties. It is a long road along which we must continue to make progress, until such time as it is so normal to find women in the positions which have always been occupied by men that reports such as this are no longer necessary. Women need support, they need more training, more convenient hours of work and sufficient help so that they can reconcile their professional lives with their family lives. Greater participation by women means improvements in democracy and the full recognition of their rights on equal terms with men. We agree with the majority of the report – and we would like to support it totally – with the exception of the specific reference to establishing fixed obligatory quotas, because that could create added problems for women themselves. We argue for more balanced and higher-level participation by women than there is at present, particularly in certain countries of the European Union. The European network of equality committees of the national parliaments, which already exists, should be strengthened, because it is a very appropriate forum for the exchange of experiences and of good practice. Women must be involved in all areas – not just in the defence of their own rights – by participating in the resolution of everyday problems, in the institutions and on company management boards, in unions and in social and cultural organisations. – (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, we have before us Mr Mulder’s report on the reform of the procedure for the clearance of accounts. This reform seeks to prevent the long delays in clearance decisions, which have been criticised frequently by the Court of Auditors. The reform consists of two separate procedures. The first is an annual audit on the revenue and the expenditure of a single financial year. The second is a series of multiannual compliance audits intended to verify the substance of transactions and compliance with Community legislation. In addition, a conciliation procedure was introduced. Despite the difficulties entailed by this procedure, it has been shown to increase the responsibility of Member States, although it has not been as effective as was anticipated. The Conciliation Body has not been sufficiently effective either. It has however contributed to the overall improvement in the clearance of accounts. This report highlights how the procedure for clearance of EAGGF accounts requires further improvement. It puts forward a series of suggestions to this end. My group will therefore fully support the report. Finally, I would like to congratulate Mr Mulder on his report. – Mr President, in 1995 at the fourth World Conference of Women in Beijing, organised by the UN, 189 countries adopted a platform for action and a declaration in which the participating governments committed themselves to improving the situation of women. If we examine the results after almost five years and with a view to the June meeting in New York, we should ask ourselves: What progress have we made? What has improved and what has got even worse? We are witnessing many armed conflicts, violence against women and extreme poverty in many cases. On the borders of the European Union, we have endured the wars in Bosnia and in Kosovo, which have still not returned to an acceptable state of normality. There are currently conflicts in Chechnya, in other regions of the Caucasus, in Afghanistan, especially the Panjshir Valley, in Africa and other regions. Violence and terrorism have been present in Algeria and still no solution has been found to normalise life and allow progress in all areas. In many parts of the world, women are victims of violence and traditional practices which do not take account of their personal dignity or their human rights. They are barred from professional life and even access to health care. The trade in human beings particularly affects women, who are victims of organised mafias and prostitution. This particularly affects younger women and, unfortunately, does not only happen in the less developed countries, but also in the wealthy countries. Women are reacting, however. They are reacting more and more and they are rebelling against those situations which degrade them and marginalise them. They want to participate in professional life, in political life, in the education of their children and in the training of young women. Numerous laws have been implemented to protect women and allow them to fight inequality, as well as allowing them to participate in political activity. Women are reacting: they make use of the laws in their favour, they organise themselves into cooperatives and manage to bring about a form of development which allows them to improve their quality of life. They want to participate more and more in technological innovations; they have discovered the opportunities offered by organising themselves and establishing associations in their places of residence, in their work-places and in their regions. They are getting better and better at fighting the old problems and achieving better lives. However, despite the progress made, we have to continue working so that many women may have more dignified and fair lives. The meeting in New York, following on from the conference in Beijing, will be a good opportunity to continue working along this line. I therefore ask for more participation by the Parliament and support from the European institutions so that our presence there may be effective. –  Mr President, we now come to the follow-up report on the 2001 discharges which contains many interesting points and which constitutes an excellent piece of work on the part of the rapporteur, Mr Casaca. It seems, however, that most of those present are concerned about one subject in particular: the fraud uncovered in Eurostat just when we were finalising the discharge of the budget management for 2001, and therefore just when Mr Casaca’s report was being drafted. Unfortunately we did not pay much attention at the time, and it was only in the summer, July to be precise, that the Commission really registered the gravity of the matter in hand and began to react. Fortunately the Commission did begin to react and to set in motion a series of internal reforms which were completely necessary and which seek to do away with a culture and approach which are outdated, inappropriate and have generated a great many problems. For example, we need to reduce external involvement, since this leads to even less control, and in turn to even lower reliability in terms of how contracts are concluded and in terms of the final outcome anticipated when they were put up for tender. Another problem which has become apparent in the Eurostat case is the very poor internal information system within the Commission. Information exchanged between different levels – namely between the Directorates-General and the Commissioners – is limited, and totally absent in some cases, although this Commission did establish a code of conduct in 1999, which it has not implemented. I presented a report which the rapporteur has incorporated more or less in its entirety, with a view to improving internal information flows within the Commission because, in my view, if internal information channels had worked properly, many of the problems could have been avoided and we would not have ended up in the current situation. I also believe the internal reform of the Commission needs to be reviewed. At the outset there was a great deal of enthusiasm for the reform, fully supported by Parliament, but it has proved a slow, difficult and sometimes inefficient process. This is why, Mr President, we have to conclude that the Eurostat revelations show that we need to seek a solution to this problem and also to other internal problems in the Commission, with a view to everything working better, which will benefit all of us. –  Mr President, this own-initiative report on sexual and reproductive health is surrounded by controversy, mainly because it concerns an area that is still within the competence of the Member States. It is subject to subsidiarity and, as an amendment by my Group recognises, its aim is for all the Member States of the Union to have the same policy, in other words for all the States to have the same law on a matter that is subject to subsidiarity but which, above all, depends upon the beliefs, traditions and patrimony of each State. This report contains a number of positive elements, in particular with regard to information and prevention of sexually-transmitted diseases, better education in schools and improved access to family planning centres and clinics, in particular for young people. The fact is that there has been an increase in unwanted pregnancies among young women, and even young girls, but we cannot allow unrestricted abortion to be put forward as a solution to this problem, because the fact is that the ultimate objective of this own-initiative report is to introduce unrestricted abortion and the morning-after pill into the legislation of the Member States of the European Union and the candidate countries as an effective means of combating unwanted pregnancy. This is unacceptable to many Europeans, both from a moral standpoint and from the point of view of health. This includes the candidate countries, which have not had the opportunity to participate in this debate, and which are therefore having our opinion forced upon them. Young people need to be given more information and the wherewithal to prevent unwanted pregnancies. Public health authorities must become involved in this information process and also in schools, and we must not forget the fundamental role to be played by parents and the need for them to be involved. I am sorry that we have not reached a greater consensus on the key issues, and I hope that in the vote we shall be able to achieve it if some of the Members who have spoken here are able to tone down or moderate their extreme approach. Otherwise I, like the rest of my Group, will have to vote against the report. I would like to thank the Commissioner in particular for the clarity with which he has replied, just as he did at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in response to a similar question from Mr Ferrández. I hope that, following this second reply, Mr Ferrández will be fully aware of how things are proceeding here – of what the Commission and the Spanish Government are really doing: in other words, it should be made very clear that the Spanish Government is not doing anything illegal by beginning work at certain points of what will be the Ebro diversion. I am particularly grateful to the Commissioner for his clarity because ideas are sometimes communicated which lead to confusion amongst the Spanish citizens and I hope that all the doubts which Mr Ferrández is constantly raising have finally been cleared up. Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Prodi for coming to the House today and also for coming before the Committee on Budgetary Control. I shall endeavour to be brief. Mr Prodi, concerning what you have grandiloquently termed the Eurostat Action Plan, I suggest this is merely chapter three of a work in which chapters one and two are lacking. The missing chapter one should have been entitled ‘facts’ and the missing chapter two ‘responsibilities’. This chapter on measures to be adopted would be chapter three. As I have already stated at the Committee on Budgetary Control, I believe these measures are absurd, curious and outdated. They are absurd because the person or body to be controlled is actually charged with informing the controller of possible infringements. They are curious because coordination committees are not what is needed to follow up allegations and seek the truth. Instead, compliance and immediate investigation of the truth are called for. Alternatively, the information should be placed before the judicial authorities. The measures are outdated because auditors have repeatedly stated the need to break away from the guidelines of Directors-General who have control over them. Further, this plan does not concern Eurostat alone. It applies generally to the functioning of the Commission. Mr President, I believe the sequence is wrong. It should be reversed. After all, information does not generate responsibility. Rather, responsibility demands information to be able to cope with commitments. With regard to OLAF, President Prodi, I suggest the introduction of some kind of ruling on admissibility. This would allow rejection of long, costly and useless proceedings detrimental to specific institutions or bodies. A number of recent cases of this kind spring to mind. None of them resulted in significant achievements. – Mr President, I would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteurs. I have been able to observe their efforts closely, as well as their coordination with all the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control. I congratulate them but I would like to focus on the report by Mr Casaca, which I consider to be positive for the reasons I will explain now. Firstly, because of the Commission’s generally positive attitude in cooperating in the drawing up of this report and in responding to the questions addressed to it. But furthermore, because this approval, or this report, was preceded by an analysis, not only of the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, but also of the questions put in the questionnaire, the answers given by the Commission, and the working documents produced by certain members of this committee. This is a cautious approval, however, which is accompanied by many recommendations which the Commission should not ignore. I am sure it will not and that it will cooperate in this regard. Of these, I will briefly mention the following: firstly, to try to eliminate the reservations in relation to the reliability of accounts. Probably through the solution offered by Mr Mulder – which he has just referred to – through an open and constructive dialogue with the Court of Auditors. But the Commission must also be aware – as I am sure it is – of the profound concern of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of the whole of this House, I am sure, given the deficiencies of the accounting system and the essential need to choose the right accounting model. That is why we have presented an amendment to this House, so that there may be an audit accompanied by a hearing, so that we protagonists who ultimately have to judge these accounts can express our opinions on them. Furthermore, I would also like to point out the caution in relation to the creation of executive agencies, the need to impose limits on the under-use of appropriations, particularly in relation to the Structural Funds, and compliance with the objectives of the Sapard Programme, above all in terms of its positive aspect of creating administrative support structures in the countries which are about to join us. Mr President, I would like to explain why our group, the Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has abstained on Amendment No 1 in Mr Casaca’s report. The word ‘abstention’ is reminiscent of certain expressions commonly used in surveys such as ‘do not know, no comment’ and, in this case, we believe that we Members of this Parliament do not yet know either the magnitude of the facts, in relation to Eurostat, or the possible responsibilities stemming from them. And ‘no comment’, in the sense that OLAF, a body responsible for combating fraud, has not provided this Parliament or any of its committees with adequate information in this regard, which could provide a detailed and complete picture of the situation. Under these circumstances, a vote in favour of the amendment would imply that we had full knowledge of the facts and that as a result we were passing judgment in terms of certain responsibilities. A vote against would also mean having knowledge of the facts and drawing a line under the issue as if it had already finished, without clarifying responsibilities. It was therefore better to await any news which may arrive from OLAF. I cannot end without saying that we believe Parliament has shown incoherence this morning, and the majority has rejected the individual responsibility of Commissioners, immediately after an individualised reference, which, in our opinion, is unfair, since it is untimely, partial and hasty. We trust that OLAF will soon provide the information we need in order to issue a reasoned judgment. –  Mr President, my first words clearly have to be congratulations to Mr Casaca for his report. Not only because of the document itself, but also for the preparatory work that went into it: finding a consensus, harmonising, exercising caution, and bringing all of this together in a report which, first and foremost, is complex. Complex because it is a follow-up report, in the strict sense of the term, while at the same time the subject matter is new and deals with something that shook us and which is now shaking public opinion. I would like to highlight a few elements of this follow-up aspect, such as the eagerness to implement fully the internal control standards, to complete an audit of the Commission’s treasury system, to introduce the payment of interest accrued in the case of Community advance payments, to address the question of recovery payments and also subjects which were already common currency in the Committee on Budgetary Control: the reform of the accounting system, for example, or the common agricultural policy – which is mentioned specifically by the rapporteur – and, above all, in relation to export refunds and the prevention of fraud in the sector. Nonetheless, as I said, this report marks a first: it is the first time the question of Eurostat has been dealt with in a report. We have been surprised by some of the questions which have come up in relation to this subject. Let me go through them. Firstly, the fact that the rules on exchanges of information, which have been in place since the beginning of this parliamentary term, have not been implemented. Secondly, it is surprising that there is no register of the owners of all the companies that have been awarded contracts and that apparently it would be virtually impossible to establish who is behind the companies participating in calls for tender issued by the Commission. So now, at this late stage, we still have our doubts about the scale of the problem and who is responsible. What is more, when we tried to contact certain sources, we encountered the incredibly valuable contribution of the auditors and the whistle-blowers, on the one hand, who filled the gaps in our knowledge about what had happened, and at the same time, we found a glaring lack of information from OLAF, which is what has led – as was stated in this House barely a month ago – to the call for regulatory reform. In particular, reform to prevent OLAF becoming a pretext for holding discussions about any given topic behind closed doors and reducing transparency. As regards the measures which have been adopted, I think they are constructive and useful. For example, the decision to establish a mechanism for information flows between the auditors in each Directorate General and the internal Audit Service, the desire to establish and give structure to each Commissioner’s responsibilities, to protect whistle-blowers from potential reprisals and a review of the early warning system – also known as the blacklist – to prevent companies that have behaved fraudulently or inefficiently in relation to the Commission from receiving further contracts and subsidies. In short, Mr President, this is an open report which also offers a link to the report on the approval of the financial management for 2002, which will provide an opportunity to evaluate some of the measures proposed in this report. It will also be the time when we will be able to plug certain gaps in our knowledge, which we hope will be filled in by OLAF. . – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to warmly thank everyone present for taking part in this debate. The report presented for debate is intended to be the European Parliament’s response to the Commission’s Communication of 2 July 2002 on an information and communication strategy for the European Union. In order to briefly present the report I will point out that its main characteristic is that it makes information a condition of citizenship. My hope is that, in the future, following the recognition of the legal personality of the European Union, this citizens’ right will combine with the European Union’s right to express itself, in what we could call the European Union’s right to an image, the European Union’s right to explain what it is and what it does, and the combination of these two rights provides a firm legal basis on which to create a genuine information and communication policy. The report opts decisively for the consolidation of interinstitutionality in the three phases of the process, that is to say, in the production of messages within the Interinstitutional Information Group, in application, using for this purpose the representations of the Commission and the offices of the European Parliament, as well national, regional and local authorities and interinstitutionality, and also in the assessment both within the Interinstitutional Information Group and by means of an annual debate on the information and communication policy. With regard to the conditions for information, I will simply comment on the analysis of the languages in which information is provided and the accessible style of language. Languages should not just be the official languages, but also the co-official languages and all those languages by means of which the message can reach the citizens in the most direct manner, with the participation, of course, of local, regional, national and Community authorities, in accordance with the scope of their competences. With regard to the content, I will focus on just two points. On the one hand, the content should indicate the European Union's influence on the daily actions of the citizens, rejecting the European Union’s frequent image as an arena for confrontation, with opposing interests on the part of the different Member States. On the other hand, we should consolidate a permanent flow of basic information for the citizen. It will be difficult for the citizens to become involved in the priorities which I am about to mention if they are not conversant with the fundamental and basic operation of the European Union. With regard to the current priorities, those already included in the Prince programme are taken up, that is to say, enlargement, the future of Europe, the area of freedom, security and justice, the establishment of the euro and the role of the European Union in the world. And attention is drawn to the imminence of the 2004 elections, which are of symbolic significance because this will be the first time that 25 countries will elect their direct representatives to this House. The analysis of the report raises certain critical questions. On the one hand, the question of the legal basis. The time has not yet come to create a legal basis for the drawing up of the programmes, but the Convention and the future Intergovernmental Conference provide the opportunity to support the idea that the future Constitution should include – within the democratic life of the European Union – a reference to the citizens’ right to information, so that they may be genuine citizens. Secondly, I will refer to the issue of sectoral information, which – I am perfectly aware – as the representatives of the Commission have tried to demonstrate, is the exclusive responsibility of the Commission. The truth is, however, that the European Union's image is either promoted or harmed directly as a result of the actions resulting from the various sectoral policies. Coordination of the various sectoral policies, orienting sectoral policies towards a common objective – the development of the European Union – should be subject not to decision, of course, but at least to consideration, within the interinstitutional information body. Thirdly, there is the issue of whether it is better to provide systemised, basic, pedagogical information, or whether we need the impact of spectacular campaigns which demand the attention of the citizen and for the fundamental elements to be expressed through them. Finally, the national authorities act as a filter. The citizens perceive Europe by means of their national authorities, for whom a success is something they have won from the rest of the Europeans and for whom harm is anything that they perceive as negative. Partnership and integration amongst the Member States and the regional and local authorities is fundamental for this purpose. – Mr President, I am glad that the Commissioner sees the solution to a problem which concerns many European citizens and in particular the Spanish Ceramics Association in such simple and straightforward terms. I am actually delighted with the assessment you have made. With regard to the evolution of imports I agree completely, not so much in terms of fraud, because if you are saying that you have the appropriate mechanisms for combating it, I do not understand why you are waiting for the citizens of Europe to tell you what these fraudulent practices consist of, since I imagine that it is for you to take the initiative in this area. I do not believe, however, you have answered another part of the question on the measures the Commission would be prepared to take to promote the penetration by Community industry, by Community companies, into China. I believe that you agree with many European citizens and, amongst others, the ceramics industry, that the current situation is a fraud, causes harm and constitutes a threat for the future. My question is whether you agree with these citizens on the need to take measures to defend trade, to stimulate research and development and to promote penetration into the Chinese market. – Madam President, the report we have before us is certainly excellent. As I already said within the Committee on Budgetary Control, I can but support it. Crafted with meticulous attention to detail, it consists of two clearly differentiated parts and has two distinct aims. Firstly, there is a critical and rigorous assessment of the reform. Constructive criticism is applied to the deficiencies of the latter. These include the division of the clearance procedure, the structure and activities of the Conciliation Body and the financial corrections applied. The shortcomings are detailed in a constructive manner however, and solutions are proposed. Secondly, the rapporteur expresses rational and legitimate concern about the immediate impact of enlargement, which is nearly upon us. This concern relates especially to the consolidation of the Integrated Administration and Control System in all Member States. Everything should also be in place for this system to be implemented in the candidate countries as soon as enlargement takes place. The lessons learnt about the SAPARD programme are also cause for concern. In my view, the critical assessment and concern detailed in this report constitute a timely warning. We should heed it. I therefore welcome the report wholeheartedly. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the flexibility he displayed during the proceedings in the Committee on Budgetary Control. His approach ensured that the report was adopted unopposed. This represents a considerable achievement. –  Madam President, I will try to express my views succinctly and concentrate on two points. The first relates to the amendment tabled by Mr Blak and the second to an overview of the report we are currently debating. Concerning my first point, I fully support Mr Blak’s amendment. In my view it is in line with the spirit of the EC Treaty. In particular, it accords with Article 276 referred to in Recital A of the report, whereby the Commission will, on request, supply Parliament with all necessary information. The decisive nature of the report makes it difficult to explain why a real restriction has been created in regulating this right to access documents, even though the restriction relates only to confidential documents. I therefore support this amendment. I trust the good offices of the legal services and the relevant committee will re-establish the validity of Article 276 of the Treaty. In my opinion the report before us is excellent. I have already had the opportunity of assessing the document within the Committee on Budgetary Control. I should point out, as the Commissioner has already, that 2000 was a transitional year. Major reforms were drawn up during that year. These reforms are gradually being implemented and we will be able to assess their impact in the years to come. Of the three sections of the report, I would like to draw your attention to that concerning management. I wish to highlight the issue of under expenditure, in particular as this concerns the Structural Funds. I welcome Commissioner Barnier’s initiative to simplify the Regulations in this regard. The current Regulations are one of the causes of under expenditure. The latter is detrimental to citizens’ rights and to the image of the Commission itself. Further, regarding the issue of the recovery of unduly paid funds, I would like to highlight that these are Community funds. The same principle applies to the procedure in which it is clear that Parliament wishes to be involved in the financial management process. Parliament therefore requires all necessary information. As for the fight against fraud, I especially welcome the reference to the European Prosecutor. Mr President, Mr Kinnock, I would like to thank you for being here to reply to this question and you will agree with me that certain measures have the virtue of inspiring unanimity, even if, as in this case, the unanimity is in favour of rejection. You will not find anybody in this House prepared to defend this removal, you do not do so and the Commission in no way does so, I would say again. We are in a peculiar situation, which is curious, because in an atmosphere of budgetary forecasts, such as the one we are in at the moment, with conciliation scheduled for next Monday, we are seeing the story of a lack of budgetary foresight, in other words, that regulation, which enters into force on 1 January 2003 and which has not received the attention of any Commission body until the communication of 29 September in which the issue of subsidies for information centres was considered settled. I will not insist on the importance of information centres, since Mr Kinnock himself has pointed it out – in your words, this is an essential element. This morning in the joint debate it was expressed by Mrs Rühle and Mrs Hieronymi, it has just been expressed by Mrs Prets and I believe that we should all be in agreement. Furthermore, the European Parliament has highlighted it on several occasions, such as in the report on information and communication policy which it was my honour to present to this House. In that report I pointed out that information centres were useful in terms of reaching all corners of the European Union and how they could be useful meeting points and instruments for the work of MEPs in their respective constituencies. Amendment 42 of the Rühle report, which the Commission opposed this morning, also stressed the importance of these information centres. The effects of removal have also been stressed by Mr Kinnock, in the sense that 270 may be deprived of subsidies and some 1000 would be affected. I therefore feel it is important to seek a transitional provision, such as that of maintaining a kind of phasing-out of these subsidies during 2004. Furthermore, I would like to analyse a certain contradiction between the Commission’s position in the Interinstitutional Group on information and its attitude in relation to information centres. On 23 September of this year, we attended a meeting of the Interinstitutional Group on information and we observed once again Commissioner Vitorino's enthusiasm with regard to the need to arbitrate these measures and to coordinate the actions of all instruments in view of the three fundamental challenges facing us; enlargement, the new Constitution and the European elections. Six days later, it published the communication we are debating. It is difficult to believe that there was no knowledge of it and that there could have been no mention of it in the Interinstitutional Group on information. Mr Vidal-Quadras, chairman of that information group, stressed it in a letter addressed personally to Commissioner Vitorino. I therefore believe that there is legitimate doubt about what we should believe most, his fine words or the firmness of his actions, and we believe that the two things should be coherent. In view of the need to seek a legal basis for the invitations for offers of participation, I would suggest to the Commission that it introduce three principles. Firstly, the simplification of the procedure – information centres are small units, they are not multinationals which can dedicate a unit to filling in thousands of forms in order to obtain subsidies or Community funds; secondly, the staff in these information centres should be given professional status, making them true information and communication professionals, and not simply auxiliary staff to hand out brochures – as Mr Kinnock has said; and, thirdly, the criterion of proportionality in order to provide a policy such as information and communication policy, which is essential to the future of the European Union, with sufficient means. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Theato on the report which I supported in the Committee on Budgetary Control and which I also expect to support in this plenum. I would like to place the report within its context and point out that we are talking about establishing the European Parliament’s position in relation to the Commission’s Green Paper on the European financial prosecutor. By means of this publication, the Commission intends to establish an extremely broad debate on all the issues relating to this figure and this has led it to include certain points which, if this were a legislative draft, would be considered crude, with gaps, and questionable in many respects. The Green Paper, however, can be summed up in the idea, the intellectual hypothesis, that the defence of Community, and therefore cross-border, financial interests can perhaps be better defended by a figure also at Community level in this same field. The rapporteur’s work is conditional upon this structure and therefore has to respond to the most significant issues in the Green Paper and also glean from that supplementary and premature information the essential notion, which is to achieve the legal basis necessary to continue a careful analysis. There are two topical reasons why this treatment and the approval of this report are advisable. On the one hand, the current Convention and the next intergovernmental conference which will establish the future of Community law and, on the other hand, the imminent incorporation of the new members which, on entering, should be faced with a legal basis which would allow them to be involved in the collective work of creating, when appropriate, the figure of European financial prosecutor. Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the President of the Court of Auditors for coming before the House today, and for his presentation. I am glad a number of the Court’s officials are accompanying Mr Fabra Vallés and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them also for the work accomplished. I cannot fail to emphasise once again the pedagogical aspect of the report before us. A conscious effort was made to include initial definitions of each of the areas. There is also an account of previous observations, proposed observations and of the Commission’s responses. Consequently, the document amounts to an encyclopaedia of Community financial management. It should prove most useful to all who have the pleasure of reading and studying it. In my view it should also be stressed that this is a transitional report, insofar as it is part of the ongoing reform of the Commission, which is a significant administrative reform. I welcome the fact that whenever it referred to that reform, the Court of Auditors focused on improvements within the Commission. The Court highlighted plans launched or proposed by the Commission, indicating that the latter is taking reform seriously. It would not actually make sense for the Commission to drag its feet over undertaking its own reform. After all, the initiative for reform came from the Commission itself. Much does certainly remain to be done. Nonetheless, there is movement towards greater cooperation. I therefore believe the observation made by Mr Fabra Vallés concerning the desirability of revising the timetable is most opportune. The estimates may prove overly optimistic. Concerning assurance of the accounts, I should emphasise that the reservations expressed are specific and can be overcome. These are not reservations on the substance, nor are they reservations on the principles. These reservations can therefore be dealt with, despite their significance. Further, some of the issues dealt with in the report, such as under-use, shared management and the reform process will be dealt with in the report on discharge for the financial year 2002. . Mr President, we are all very well aware that we are dealing with a task – the discharge of the budget – which, as stated in the Treaty, falls within the exclusive competence of Parliament. I would also like to point out that at the moment the jobs of thousands of officials in the Commission and other institutions are at stake, but this is also an opportunity to highlight the most significant events which have taken place in the field of financial management. I would also like to point out that the issue before us is financial management and not each of the specific issues arising from that management and, furthermore, any potential irregularities are dealt with by the various courts or judicial authorities. For all of these reasons, the report for which I have the honour of being rapporteur consists, as usual, of three important documents. On the one hand, the discharge of the accounts is submitted to this plenum and, secondly, what is proposed is that the management should be discharged, rather than postponed, accompanied by recommendations which make up a resolution covering very diverse aspects, some of which I will comment on very briefly. Firstly, we have the problem of shared management. In accordance with the Treaties, the Commission has exclusive responsibility for financial management, but it is also the case that eighty per cent of that financial management is in the hands of, or carried out with the crucially important cooperation of, the Member States or third States. It is therefore proposed that the Treaties be interpreted as granting and recognising the Commission’s primacy and pre-eminence in this area, in order to provide it with instruments which may require particular action on the part of the Member States. Furthermore, the report deals with the issues of Commission reform. This concerns substantial reform in the field of financial management which involves its decentralisation and the allocation of responsibility to the Directors-General which is reviewed every year in the annual statement of activities. This mechanism has been updated over the years and this report suggests further improvements. Within the reform of the Commission, the issue of Eurostat is raised. We have just heard a statement from the Commission and unfortunately this issue is not closed. Instead, it is in the hands of the judicial authorities, which could raise issues of political responsibility in the future, and we must therefore remain vigilant. It is also the case, however, that Eurostat has also served as an incentive for certain important reforms undertaken by the Commission, including detecting some of the defects which existed, such as the relationship between the Directors-General and the Commissioners, which has been considerably enhanced in the Commission’s third progress report and in relation to which we must expect further substantial improvements. Within the context of this general reform of the Commission, we are also seeing a reform of accounting procedures, an important reform which must reconcile a dual system of budgetary management based on both cash-based and accrual-based accounting. We believe that the general approach which is being applied and proposed to be satisfactory. We must wait until 2005. Improvements have been made, such as the invoice register or the contractors’ database. The report also addresses problems of coordination between the various control structures and, fundamentally, the establishment, within the Directorates-General, of the relationship between the internal audit service and the Commissioners. The internal audit service is the responsibility of the Presidency and it is proposed that it remain with the Presidency. It is also proposed to link, to some extent, the Internal Audit Capabilities with the Internal Audit Service. Furthermore, it suggests a separation of the functions of the budget and those of budgetary control. With regard to the various policies that are analysed, in the field of own resources a more direct connection is proposed which reduces the tension that exists between net contributors and the other countries. The existence of a tax, the existence of a direct link between the European citizens and the Commission and the European institutions would promote awareness of the European Union and would reduce that tension between what some people give and what others receive. In the field of agriculture, a critical view is taken of the prefinancing of exports, which represents free financing, and, with regard to the Structural Funds, underutilisation, which is the result of the Member States’ overestimations in their calculations is criticised. With regard to external measures, it is requested that external audits are undertaken on the basis of objective criteria and that food safety and aid not be subsumed into the framework of a general development programme. Finally, in relation to administrative expenditure, the report addresses the problems of invalidity pensions and sick leave. I would also like to thank Bent Adamsen and Marianella Martínez, who have helped me, and the Executive Commission and the Court of Auditors for their cooperation. . –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, it is well known that, despite successive reforms, Article 73 of the Treaties remains in force, which means that coordination between the various modes of transport is still a Community obligation. It should not be otherwise, since if this were not the case what would probably happen, given the current trends that we face every day, is that the roads would fill to bursting point with lorries. Such coordination between the various transport modes was taking place under a Regulation that had been in force for thirty years and was beginning to seize up. This gave the Commission an excellent opportunity to put forward this proposal, which will replace the old regulation just in time. This is its intention and we applaud it. We believe, however, that the Commission has displayed a certain degree of prudence in its proposal. It has moved ahead, but rather too tentatively. What is more, everything indicates that most of the political groups in this House are of the same opinion, since this is revealed by the content and the large number of amendments – 116 – tabled and debated in this Parliament’s Committee on Transport, almost all of them with the same message: to use this opportunity to encourage the necessary and appropriate transfer of traffic onto more environmentally friendly modes of transport. This is a desirable objective which, I believe, has to a great extent been achieved, in view of the results of the exhaustive voting that took place in the Committee. Therefore, as the rapporteur, I must congratulate the Members who tabled those amendments, since the results achieved – which today are put before this House as a joint effort by everybody – are the outcome of a broad consensus. I take this opportunity to draw the Commission’s attention to this fact when it accepts or rejects our amendments. We would like there to be a reasonable degree of identification between Parliament and the Commission. In our debates we bore in mind facts such as the following: a vital Kyoto commitment is to cut our polluting gas emissions by 8% by 2010, whereas, if there is no change in the relative shares of the various transport modes, it has been predicted that in the transport sector there will be a 40% increase in these emissions over this period. It has also been calculated that moving goods by rail needs four times less energy than by road. Something similar could be said for transport by inland waterway. Trains can use a greater proportion of renewable energy. If action is not taken in time, road traffic will double between now and 2010. Does all this mean that we have to gradually give up using roads? Not at all. There may be some conflict of opposing interests between the different transport modes – that is to be expected – but the strikingly obvious consequence of all this is that coordination between the various transport modes is still essential. This is precisely the aim of the proposal we are debating today, and through it the respective shares of each transport mode may tend to be redistributed in more rational proportions. In view of this intermodal conflict it must be recognised that the Commission has acted in a reasonably balanced manner in its proposal. For our part, without ever losing sight of that coveted balance, we have moved ahead but only ever opening the throttle in what I would call emergencies, that is, in those objectives that should not wait any longer. For instance, accepting that in practice transhipment between land and maritime transport, and also coastal traffic, has a significant land component and therefore should not be ignored in this directive. Emphasising real, sustained progress, and also research and development. Enhancing combined transport, the  concept for avoiding bureaucracy, and the contractual relationship for ensuring the transfer of traffic from one mode to another that is more beneficial. To end with, what can be said about external costs? It is a fact that there are highly competent consultants who have argued, for instance, that external costs, including traffic congestion, are shooting up to account for 10% of the gross domestic product of Europe, a figure which may be debatable but which is astounding all the same. In view of this we believe that the Commission should tackle this problem now. We urge the Commission to prepare a proposal taking into account the value of such external costs so that they can then be internalised, and then we will have taken a giant step forwards in this matter. – Madam President, I am going to comment on the Koukiadis report. Hardly a year has passed since we debated the report on the deliberations of the Committee on Petitions for 2001 – for which I was rapporteur – and I am pleased to note that the right of petition is increasingly strengthening the political control that the European Parliament can exercise in relation to excessive violations of Community law. This also allows us to assess the state of the application of that law within the Union and the degree of satisfaction amongst the citizens with the Community institutions, which are absolutely essential in a Union which is so large, so multi-faceted and sometimes so disconnected from those institutions. All of this is taken up superbly in the report by Mr Koukiadis which, furthermore, comes at an historic moment for the Convention, which should not sidestep – this would be a great mistake – the strengthening of the right to petition and the enlargement of a uniform administrative code of conduct. For all these reasons, we congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Koukiadis. However, we once again regret – and this aspect is also taken up in the report we are debating – the lack of attention the Council is paying to this inalienable right of the European citizens, since the Council is still absent throughout the process, and this at a time when it is trying to gain more power for itself, to the detriment of Parliament and the Commission. Furthermore, we are delighted at the intention to introduce preventive measures to prevent abuses of cultural and environmental heritage – which, by the way, are issues which are at the forefront of the European citizens’ concerns. I will end by insisting also that we should investigate procedures aimed at effectively remedying the national authorities’ lack of willingness to cooperate with the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament. We must study them and implement them as soon as possible. We have had enough of the lukewarm positions of the Council and the national governments. As the rapporteur suggests and as has been proposed in corresponding reports in previous years, we should even go as far as to renounce, in press conferences, the obstructive and reticent attitudes of the governments to the resolutions of Parliament’s Committee on Petitions. And I would also like to wish Jacob Söderman all the best for his Iberian retirement. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by saying that serving as rapporteur for this report is a matter of great personal satisfaction for me. This is because I am one of those firmly convinced of the value of the European Parliament’s Committee on Petitions for society at large. The reason is that the system enabling citizens to present petitions is the most direct channel available to Europeans when it comes to denouncing the loopholes still remaining in Community legislation. It is also invaluable for highlighting cases where commitments resulting from directives and regulations already adopted are flagrantly disregarded either because the latter are not being implemented or because they have simply not been transposed. In addition, the European Ombudsman has a key role to play in this great task. It has also been a matter of great personal satisfaction for me to note the high degree of consensus between members of the Committee during debates and votes. The figures speak for themselves. All sixteen conclusions in the report were adopted by unanimity. The same was true of the five amendments tabled following minor adjustments in the interests of compromise. Accordingly, I should like to thank the entire Committee and its secretariat. As you are already familiar with the content of the report, ladies and gentlemen, I shall only refer to what I consider to be its most innovative features. For instance, the European citizens’ right to petition, which as I see it is a fundamental right, is extended to include natural or legal residents, together with those who have registered in a Member State. There is also the recommendation that in future debates this fundamental right should be ascribed the importance due to it, and that it should be included in the possible convention on the building of Europe. Further, it is clearly necessary to grant the Committee on Petitions the status it deserves, given its social importance resulting from direct contact between individuals and the institution. This must come about, because something has to be done to break down the barriers between the people and the remote European institutions highlighted by all the surveys undertaken. One way forward might well be to encourage more own initiative reports, particularly concerning issues on which the citizens appear to be particularly anxious to be more closely involved with the institutions. It also seems reasonable to try and devise ways to carry through legislative initiatives stemming from civil society itself. They are usually indicative of serious shortcomings. All this serves to highlight once again the legitimacy of this Committee’s right to have access to all relevant interinstitutional documentation. Indeed, this is essential if the Committee is to undertake its important task effectively. In this connection it is only fair to mention the ongoing help received from both the Commission and the Ombudsman. Their support is invaluable and much appreciated. Unfortunately, the same is not true of the Council. It remains conspicuous by its absence. Clearly, at this stage the citizens need to become far more aware of the petitions system. This could be achieved through programmes aimed at informing and educating or more specifically, through information technology. User-friendly guidebooks are needed. This is an outstanding task. Apathy on the part of certain public authorities at all levels, community, national, regional or local has been detected all too often when it comes to finding fair solutions to the problems arising. Some reaction to this negative situation is called for. At the very least, we should appeal to the President of the House to ensure that, if appropriate, publicity could be given to this reluctance to tackle problems and flagrant injustices which continue to afflict certain sectors of ordinary European society. In conclusion, I should like to draw attention to the considerable importance attached to maximising personal contact between petitioners and the European Parliament through the Committee on Petitions, so as to ensure that the Committee’s work bears good fruit. I should also like to express our appreciation of the splendid service provided by the European Parliament’s Directorate-General for Research and by STOA. – Mr President, it is well known, and those of us who are members of the Committee on Petitions have been well aware of it for some time now, that this Parliament and the institution of European Ombudsman are not overly happy about the way in which the Commission has been handling complaints by European citizens. There have frequently been many criticisms in this respect. Therefore, the Ombudsman, in relation to a complaint concerning the Macedonian Joint Venture, stated at the time that the Commission would have to reconsider its operating methods in respect of complaints by citizens, in other words in respect of the intercommunication between the Commission and European citizens. So now we have this communication from the Commission, which recognises that the handling of this intercommunication requires a better framework, mainly from an administrative point of view, in the area of permanent personal contact with the citizens who have submitted the complaint or petition, and in the area of the classification of complaints, treating them properly and reasonably. The report by Mrs Fortou has arrived in this context, and I would like to congratulate her on her work. The agreement must be maintained up to the end. We call on the Commission to welcome the proposals in this report, which make a great deal of sense. I reiterate, therefore, that we give our full backing to this report, and to the Commission we say that we are at a particularly opportune and interesting moment, coinciding as it does with the accession of 10 further Member States, to pursue this action. Mr President, in this debate I shall focus exclusively on the alarm raised by the Commission amongst European tobacco growers further to its hare-brained proposal for reform of the sector. One might well wonder if it really is so difficult to understand the President of the Council of Agriculture Ministers. I refer to Mr Alemanno, the Italian Minister. He spoke eloquently about the social importance of retaining this crop, notably in Spain, Greece and Italy. Tobacco imports into the European Union are bound to increase. The President of the Agriculture Council has argued along these lines. The Spanish Agriculture Minister is of the same opinion. So too are the authorities in my constituency, Extremadura. It is one of the regions set to suffer most if this body blow to rural society is actually delivered. I would point out yet again that the move could have devastating consequences for the region. Some 20 000 families would be affected. Loss of income would be of the order of EUR 200 million. I must also state that no alternative use of the land has yet been identified, other than leaving it uncultivated. Allow me to make some summary comments. The Commissioner has endeavoured to demonstrate that the Commission undertook thorough research. It should therefore be in a position to provide figures for the drop in tobacco consumption in the Union following reform. It should also be able to provide information on the tariffs to be imposed in order to restrict imports of tobacco into the Union. I trust the Commission took careful note of events in the House this morning during the vote on the budget. Parliament rejected Amendments Nos 723 and 338. The amendments would have resulted in drastic reductions of tobacco premiums. Once again, Parliament has demonstrated its understanding of the social damage a cut in premiums would inflict on so many rural European families. I must reiterate that there is nothing else they can grow. I know the Commissioner for Agriculture has feelings. I would like to hope he has taken this political message on board. Mr President, I must begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Philip Charles Bradbourn, on the effort he has put into producing this report throughout its negotiation. The projects affected, classified as priorities, which will be declared to be of Community interest, will enjoy the very significant advantage of easier access to the available Community resources. In our case, we are glad that the modification of project No 16 in Annex III has been included, the Sines-Badajoz railway line, changing its dimension and adding certain links by road and rail which will also provide greater permeability for the Pyrenees and which are going to resolve the bottlenecks which usually arise in this area. But it must be made clear that this permeability of the Pyrenees – and this is our opinion and our demand – must extend all the way to Algeciras itself. We are also pleased with the support for the so-called ‘motorways of the sea’, since attaching the same importance to these transnational maritime routes as to motorways or railway is going to facilitate connections with countries isolated by natural barriers. The benefit will undoubtedly extend also to countries with island or peripheral regions. In line with this thinking, nevertheless, we cannot understand why, in certain passages, specific reference to the Iberian Peninsula (Spain and Portugal) is being removed in connections with the North Sea and the Irish Sea. We will vote in accordance with these considerations. – Mr President, I would like firstly to thank Mrs Dührkop Dührkop, as is customary, for her good report concerning SAB 5/99. In addition to Mrs Dührkop’s report, we have already heard the debates on the issues of own resources and budgetary discipline and the truth is that none will be of any advantage to the tax-payer unless we improve the efficiency of the campaign against fraud. Mrs Theato has just commented very effectively on the fact that we have replaced UCLAF with OLAF. We are debating how to find the most suitable director. But none of this is of any use if we do not provide OLAF with the necessary resources. Therefore, I am pleased that by means of this supplementary and amending budget of EUR 202 million the new posts can be increased from 15 to 30 and that, furthermore, it should be done this time with the agreement of the Council. Every day, OLAF is having to deal with an increasing number of problems. Every day, the geographic area is increasing and I therefore believe that every day, OLAF must be provided with sufficient means, both in terms of personnel and of material means, so that it may attend to the new issues. For example, I believe that one of the parts which has still not been sufficiently studied is the proportionality of fines: I am referring to the fact that the worst fraud should be punished with the greatest fine. We also lack knowledge of the details when a fine is lowered or waived. Therefore, I have always said – and I repeat it here today – that in order to move forward, good will is not enough, but we also need the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament to move in the same direction. And, as in this case, to be able to count on a strong and effective OLAF which will benefit the European tax-payer. – Madam President, I simply want to say that I would like it to be recorded in the Minutes that, for obvious reasons, I am going to abstain from this vote, since it affects me directly. Furthermore, not only am I not going to vote, but I am actually going to leave the Chamber. – Mr President, this year, once again, we rapporteurs and speakers are using the word rigour in relation to the budget. And if it is clear that rigour is required in the implementation of the budget, I would also claim that we require rigour in the drawing up of the budget. And it is difficult to be rigorous in the drawing up of the budget if one does not have rigorous information. And here today, how many of us have had to insist on the question of the fishing agreement, a clear case of a lack of rigorous information. The previous Commission should have foreseen that the said agreement was going to be discussed again, that it was going to be renewed and that therefore it would have to be reflected in the budget. With regard to the other institutions, when we speak, for example, of interinstitutional cooperation, how much rigour was there in the information on the day when our colleagues previously agreed that a Common Organisational Structure had to be set up and what is the reality today when we decide that we have to dissolve that common structure? I believe that we lack rigorous information. When we speak of building policy, who has the genuine information about the continuous changes between the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions who say “now I am going to that building”, “now I am not interested”, “now I am going to the other”? When we speak of the rigour necessary for interinstitutional cooperation with regard to the buildings in Luxembourg, has Parliament decided what the effective minimums and maximums are which Parliament requires in Luxembourg? When we talk about expecting enlargements as from 2002, are we taking account, in our building policy, of the enlargements to come, in 2002, 2003 and 2004? Rigour also has to be demanded of the members of other committees: the Committee on Budgets must not always be seen as the baddy, the one who always makes all the cuts. The other committees must take responsibility in the knowledge that new policies mean new expenditure, that for every increase there must be a cut. And with regard to MEPs allowances, I believe that the current regulation is less unjust than any situation which the absence of a regulation would cause. In any event, it can only be reformed by means of the Members’ Statute. –  Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you – if I am not mistaken – on your first Presidency. The truth is that it appears that you have been doing it all your life. Therefore, congratulations. With regard to the SAB 3/99, Mr President, there are two cases, which are not of that type which we have often criticised in the Committee on Budgets for the use and abuse of the supplementary and amending budgets, but which I believe are well justified cases. On the one hand, the Court of Justice, which is going to renew its entire informatics system with regard to word processing. This is totally justifiable, not only because it is currently a system which is not prepared for the “year 2000 effect”, but also because the new system takes into account the compatibility of systems and, what’s more, it is a complicated system which will cover the whole process from the beginning, from the conception of the text up to its publication, without any other system being involved, and I believe this will put the Court of Justice in the best possible position to carry out its work. This increase which has been requested in this supplementary and amending budget amounts to EUR 1,675,000 which is not all for equipment, since a proportion – EUR 135,000 – will be dedicated to the training of staff. This is all that would remain in this SAB if it had been taken into account earlier, since we began to speak about it in 1998, but it could not be covered in the 1999 budget without recourse to an SAB. Well, this is due to delays because, firstly, an auditing company which understood the matter had to be used and the best system had to be chosen and also an invitation to tender had to be issued. This has led to the delay and we therefore are faced with this supplementary and amending budget which the Committee on Budgets is fully prepared to grant. The second case refers to the Committee of the Regions. We all know that the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee has a common organisational structure, the COS, but that as a result of the Treaty of Amsterdam and its implementation, it was decided that this common organisational structure would be dismantled. Therefore the Committee of the Regions ended up without a financial controller or an accounting officer, and it is very difficult to function without a financial controller or an accounting officer. This is why the Committee of the Regions has requested an A3 as a financial controller, an A5 as an accounting officer and a C5 as a secretary. The Committee on Budgets fully agrees with the Council and believes that we should allow an A4 as financial controller, an A5 as accounting officer and for the moment not allow this C5. I would ask the person responsible for the 2000 budget to bear in mind the needs of the Committee of the Regions and consider whether this post can figure amongst posts included in the 2000 budget for that Committee. We have often been a little mean in the granting of staffing increases but it is also true that sometimes we do not allow the institutions to function totally efficiently through a lack of personnel. This is therefore an issue which should be looked into thoroughly. I do not wish to end, Mr President, without addressing a few words to the Commissioner, Mr Liikanen, whom I believe to be on his last day in charge of budgets. I can only say two things to him: one, that the task has been difficult and, two, that the result has been good. I would not say very good, but I would say good. You have played your role in the task and how many people would want to do the job you have done? Therefore, I would like to express my thanks and my congratulations. – Mrs President, I believe that if we look for the common denominator in everything we have been talking about here, we would find that there is a problem of inconvenience, which I believe we will gradually be able to iron out. Things will then improve. The problem is also that we are being far too sensitive with regard to this inconvenience. And we are far too sensitive because we have to come here via a transport system which is also inconvenient and our inconvenience in the face of this transport system is added to the inconvenience that we find here. I believe that if we want to deal with part of this inconvenience we will never be able to do so by thinking only of the building or only of transport. We will have to deal with the problem jointly and at the same time. The problem with the building is not to do with the current team. On the contrary, we should be grateful for the efforts that they are making to resolve it. And this current sitting demonstrates this. Rather, I believe that the responsibility is to be found among previous teams, like, for example, Mr Quintela. Mr Quintela is responsible for half – or more – of the problems which have been created in this building. I think we should bear this in mind if, at some time, Mr Quintela wants to once again become involved in the works of the Parliament. And lastly, Mrs President, I believe that the only way to resolve all of this is to arrange a serious meeting between the SERS, the Parliament and the French Government. With regard to the French Government, I think the first thing they should do is find a new representative. I do not think that Mr Vaillant currently has the necessary sensitivity to offer the solutions that the French Government must offer. Lastly – and perhaps I am talking with my budgetary hat on – I would like to point out that, although we will eventually find out how much it is going to cost – because we will see every last invoice – what we will never know about are the additional costs there may have been because, at the moment, we still do not know exactly how much it is supposed to cost us. –  Mr President, the second EU/Latin-American and Caribbean Summit we are discussing today should be viewed in a positive light by a majority in the House. There has been progress, and positive signals have certainly been sent out. Specific agreements such as the association agreement with Chile have been finalised. The latter will result in the most ambitious and innovative free trade area to date, in line with the preferential agreement signed with Mexico two years ago. Our friends in Mercosur, the Andean Pact, the San José Group and the Caribbean should view the agreement with Chile as a further incentive for subregional integration. It is now up to them to make further progress in this respect, through specific actions, not mere words. The case of Mercosur and the crisis in Argentina are one example of this, but there are others. Latin American democracies are now more soundly based than they were two decades ago. Nonetheless, their institutional weaknesses must be made good if we are to prevent social imbalance and poverty from afflicting an increasing number of sectors of those societies and destabilising and threatening the democratic institutions. We ought not and must not rest on our laurels. We should instead forge ahead bravely as regards cooperation with specific countries and projects. Only a few hours ago, the people of Colombia demonstrated their determination and courage as citizens. They came out in favour of peace and coexistence. Sadly, however, terrorists continue to kill, kidnap and blackmail the people of that country and of Peru and Venezuela, whilst we continue to debate whether or not to include those who murder, kidnap or blackmail on the list of terrorist organisations. We are setting a disgraceful example of the use of double standards. I should like to point out to the Commission’s representative that the management of our development aid is not up to standard. Funding for projects we have committed to arrives late and sometimes badly. Well-founded complaints are received daily, together with examples that do nothing to enhance the Union’s reputation. Still more unfortunately, development aid is being withheld from large sectors of the population that simply cannot afford to be deprived of its benefits. – Madam President, we could vote for the seven amendments , but I would like to propose an oral amendment in relation to Amendment No 4. According to the Spanish version, the proposed oral amendment only changes three words: in the first line, where it says ‘the Community will establish a legal basis for future contributions’, it should say, ‘the Commission should propose a legal basis for future contributions’, and so on until the end. According to the Spanish version, no greater modifications are necessary, but the problem is that the compromise text we negotiated with the Council was in English and in that version it would be necessary to make two modifications: in the first line, it would be the same modification which I mentioned for the Spanish, that is: ‘, instead of , and in the last line it should say Those are the two modifications I would propose to the English version. Mr President, Mr Patten has defined these agreements with two words: ‘strategy’ and ‘transitional’. I must thank him for his frankness, because in a way the two concepts are contradictory. The debate on the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreements between the European Union and Central America and the Andean Community are a good example of the current situation of our relations with these countries, which I, in addition to the words you have used, would say is currently unsatisfactory. This is a Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement, but we are not making progress with our commercial relations. In reality, over recent years our relations with these areas of the world have not progressed in the way this Parliament would have liked. The crisis facing the Andean countries as a whole and in each one of them individually has not been helpful in terms of improving these relations. Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia are experiencing very difficult times which have hindered their processes of sub-regional integration, and this has not made it easy to make progress on our relations with them. The same can be said of Central America, where huge swathes of the population, young people in particular, who are increasingly marginalised and turning to crime as a result of their social marginalisation, are becoming an urgent problem for these small Central American States. I hope that the agreement with Mercosur, which is on the point of being signed, if things go ahead as planned, will be added to those in force with Chile and with Mexico and that these two regions can benefit from more ambitious agreements, the results of which will not be seen by the current Commission and Parliament, but by our successors. – Mr President, in 1979, Willy Brandt presented his famous "North-South Report, a programme for survival", in which he warned of the risk that in the year 2000 a large part of the population would continue to live in poverty. Shortly after that pronouncement some frightening statistics were published; every 24 hours, 35 000 human beings died of hunger in the world. In two years, hunger caused more deaths than the two world wars put together. The year 2000 arrived and the situation has only got worse. According to the World Health Organisation, extreme poverty – misery – is the chief cause of suffering in the world and is also the one which each year claims the greatest number of human lives and yet we are still talking about poverty and how we are going to remedy it. A few months ago, before the summer, at our Brussels headquarters, the United Nations together with the EU organised the Third Conference on the Least-developed Countries dedicated in particular to analysing the causes, consequences and solutions of poverty. We also set an ambitious target: to reduce poverty by half by the year 2005. Some studies lead to the conclusion, Mr President, that by what we are doing, with the plans and projects we intend to carry out and above all, with the resources we allocate and those which are intended to be allocated, that objective cannot be met. Our concern now is to combat the international terrorism fostered by some notorious fanatics. True, that is the problem of the moment but, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the root of the problem. The problem is poverty throughout a large part of the world. Until we solve the problem of poverty, especially the extreme poverty – misery – in which hundreds of millions, around 1 500 million human beings, and I am using cautious figures, live, we will continue to be exposed to situations such as those we are experiencing now. Between 13 and 19 September some of us were visiting some of the poorest regions of the planet, in the south of the African continent. Mozambique today has 19 million inhabitants but within 9 years only 13 million will still be alive; the remaining 6 will have died of Aids. Today Mr Khanbhai in his report proposes a series of measures to combat Aids, malaria and tuberculosis in the context of reducing poverty. During a visit to a field hospital way out in the middle of the African savannah, my colleagues and I witnessed how victims of a cholera epidemic are dying – believe me, right now – in a Dante-esque spectacle such as occurred in Europe in the Middle Ages. This is also happening at other hospitals which are not in the middle of nowhere. In Mocuba, there is a provincial hospital where women give birth next to patients with Aids, tuberculosis, leprosy, meningitis, and infectious diarrhoeas of all kinds. For all these diseases which today can be cured and eradicated, there are drugs. It is a problem of resources, and above all, it is a problem of political will. Mr Khanbhai, I congratulate you and thank you for the important contribution you have made in your report. But, Mr Bashir, you know your native Africa better than I do. Let us make no mistake, the problems of poverty in the world are today of such magnitude that these measures, with the present resources, are like a drop in the ocean. Some day we will realise this. Either we fight against poverty with all our energy and all our resources until we conquer it, or poverty with its many faces – now taking the form of terrorism – will conquer us. . – Mr President, as the rapporteur, Mr Marset, has said – and we support his words and his report – Hurricane Mitch has been the worst natural disaster in the history of Central America. The human losses number more than 10 000 deaths; almost another 10 000 have disappeared and more than 2 million people have been affected; the material damage amounts to more than EUR 5 billion which is equivalent to 10% of the GDP of Central America. A significant part of the economic and social infrastructure has been destroyed and there has been a great reduction in the region’s capacity for production and export in the short and medium term. The countries most affected, Honduras and Nicaragua, are the poorest in the region. The destructive effect of Mitch was exacerbated by deforestation and the lack of an adequate system of flood control, which demonstrated once again that environmental degradation affects the poorest most and highlights the intrinsic link between poverty and environmental deterioration. As the Commission has said, the consequences of Mitch will considerably reduce the results of the efforts towards economic recovery and investment made there during the last decade by the European Union. In April 1999, the Commission approved a special action plan, provided with EUR 250 million, which this Parliament fully supports in the terms in which it was approved. With regard to the model for implementing this programme, the Committee on Development and Cooperation supports option 1 proposed by the Commission. Only in the event that it is not possible to carry out option 1 as a result of a lack of sufficient human resources, could option 2 be considered valid, by means of the contracting of highly qualified European experts. As draftsman of the Committee on Development and Cooperation I must not end without asking, once again, for the cancellation of the foreign debt of the Central American countries, an initiative which must be dealt with by the European Union as a whole and in a coordinated fashion and not only by certain Member States acting on individual and particular initiatives. Lastly, I believe it is also necessary to ask, within the strategic reconstruction plan, for the proposal of measures aimed at increasing credits from the European Investment Bank in that region. . Mr President, this debate on the regulation amending certain aspects for the implementation of Community development cooperation operations which contribute to consolidating democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights has served to test, over recent months, the extent of our capacities and also to demonstrate certain defects in our procedures. This is certainly a modest instrument in financial terms, but one which is very important in terms of its content and objectives, and highly valued by everybody, and particularly by the European Parliament. I would point out that one of the budgetary lines funding these programmes was created on our initiative in 1994. As Commissioner Nielson has just told us, we are talking about a proposed regulatory modification which, in the Commission's opinion, according to what the Commission services have told us, affects purely technical aspects - he did not mention this specifically – and comes closer to what Parliament believes has always had an unquestionably political content, if only because the intention is to extend by two years the duration and the operational capacity of an instrument which according to all the reports and opinions received, and which are mentioned by the Council's communication, is of very great interest. Nevertheless, Parliament considers that, as proposed in the Council's draft, the participation of our institution in the different stages of the procedure does not meet our aspirations, particularly in an area which is subject to co-decision. From the beginning, more than six months ago now, we have spent a great deal of time debating formal and procedural issues but, fortunately, as Commissioner Nielson has said, today I believe I can perhaps confirm that we will make it at the last minute, but on time, so that this Community initiative will not be interrupted or paralysed for some time as a result of the changes that will take place in Parliament and the Commission over the coming months. Before dealing with certain technical comments on our proposal, I must point out, Mr President, that there is a technical corrigendum which the services of Parliament must be aware of at this point, which changes the order of the amendments we are proposing and which we will vote on tomorrow. In the report I have proposed and which is supported by the Committee on Development and Cooperation and in agreement with the Council, we propose an amendment to Article 4(1) by means of which we introduce into the legislative text that ‘in cases of EU electoral observation missions and procedures, natural persons can receive financial support within the meaning of the present Regulation’. The experience of all of us who have participated in missions of electoral observers tells us that, despite all the restrictions we might wish to mention, the presence of international observers in elections increases trust in transparency and strict compliance with democratic principles in developing countries. Parliament does not wish to give up its participation in the programming phase, in establishing priorities and in implementing initiatives. In the explanatory statement we have included this desire on the part of Parliament in case, as a result of the current legislative framework, as Commissioner Nielson has mentioned, this is not possible at the moment. We hope that the commitment adopted by Mr Nielson on behalf of the Commission can be confirmed in the future. In my view, Amendment No 3, which appears in the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, should be withdrawn by its rapporteur. Otherwise, I recommend voting against that amendment. This is the best agreement possible if our intention is to approve this report at first reading, as the Council, the Commission and Parliament wish, in order to respond to a widely shared demand. Furthermore, it is particularly necessary for the strengthening of civil society in developing countries. However, this does not mean, and should not be understood to mean, that Parliament is satisfied. It is a co-decision procedure, an issue that affects human rights and fundamental freedoms, which this House has been very sensitive to for many years. Parliament believes that when it is a question of establishing a new programme and not just an extension for the next two years, as in the case we are debating today, we will demand a greater presence and more active participation within the framework of the rules regulating the Union’s institutional dialogue, on which those who succeed us here in the next legislature will have to establish a new framework which provides an equal basis so that this desire on the part of Parliament is fulfilled. –  Mr President, a debate on fishing and poverty is not simple. And, since the rapporteur belongs to the Group of the Greens, Mr Lannoye’s efforts towards synthesis are all the more creditable. Poverty is the world’s main problem today and it unfortunately will continue to be so for many years. For some of the poorest countries in the world, fishing is one of their main resources; in fact, for many of them, it is their only economic resource. Mozambique receives 75% of its total income from the export of crustaceans, and this is a perfect example of a model of sustainable development. The rapporteur, Mr Lannoye, should be credited with proposing a realistic text, which retains a laudable dose of utopianism. I must say that the Commission’s proposal is coherent with the objective of responding to European interests, while making it compatible with a frame of reference for the development of countries for which fishing is an essential resource in their fight against poverty. I have mentioned the case of Mozambique, but it would be unfair not to say that there are other very positive aspects to this African country’s efforts to move forward, and there are other African countries which are acting well in relation to fishing, such as Namibia, to give but one example. It seems pertinent to insist on the need for the Union to be especially careful in complying with the code of conduct for responsible fishing, to which we are committed as members of the FAO. We must wait for the authorities of the developing countries to make the same effort. It is true that certain practices – as Mr Lannoye has mentioned – in certain specific cases of Community operators are unacceptable, but it is also the case that, sometimes, these practices would not be possible without the cooperation of the local operators involved. This problem is serious and complex and I therefore repeat that the efforts of the Commission and the rapporteur are creditable in that they offer us a balanced approach to it. – Mr President, we are holding a debate on an issue which is of relatively modest importance in budgetary terms, ambitious in its objectives, relatively encouraging in its results, inefficient because of its cumbersome management procedures, at times contradictory and, in short, there is clearly room for improvement in the future. I must express my satisfaction at the frankness and transparency with which the committee has analysed the results that have been obtained. It does not hide anything and I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Dell'Alba, because in a co-decision procedure he has rejected demagoguery and easy criticism in favour of the professionalism with which he has approached the drawing up of his report. I hope that, in a co-decision procedure, the Commission will be sensitive to Parliament’s position so that we can begin the now urgent reform of this important financial instrument. This instrument for the development of the private sector in developing countries is in accordance with the thinking which inspires the new position of the European Union in its cooperation policy. We have already talked a lot about this in relation to the ACP countries and we must apply the same criteria in relation to the countries of Latin America and the southern Mediterranean. The results obtained so far are encouraging. More than 1 300 new companies have been set up, generating 42 000 jobs, and investment flows to the tune of EUR 3 500 million have been created. Certain hopes and expectations, however, have been left behind. We find it contradictory to say that fighting poverty is our priority and, yet we lack the information and indicators necessary to ascertain to what extent the most impoverished sectors have benefited from the aid. Lastly, Commissioner, it is urgent that we reform the five current cumbersome procedures, none of which is of any real use, since they can clearly be improved. –  Thank you, Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation. I take the floor to defend the European Community’s contribution to the fight against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, a bittersweet task. I am pleased that we have contrived to approve a significant financial contribution by the Union to the creation of a Global Fund as suggested by the United Nations’ Secretary-General. The aim is to fight against the three most common contagious diseases in the world. They affect the least developed countries who find themselves trapped in a vicious circle of poverty and disease. The higher the level of poverty, the greater the risk of contagious diseases. In turn, a higher level of disease aggravates the degree of poverty. It is pleasing, too, that we have achieved this in record time, through the codecision procedure, with urgency and at first reading. A number of amendments were tabled and negotiated with the Council. In our view, these improved the text of the original proposal. On the other hand, I have to say how much we regret that the Council and, especially, the Commission, have put us in such a difficult position. They have presented us with a text which, as originally drafted, bypassed Parliament and denied us the right to exercise our responsibilities as a budgetary authority. No account was taken of Parliament’s repeated statements on the need for much more energetic action in the context of a global strategy to fight against poverty, and, in particular, against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. I refer, in particular, to the report by Bashir Khanbhai, who is with us today. A lot of time and energy went into it. It was approved by a resolution in plenary on 4 October this year, yet the initial document put before us did not even refer to it. In their common declaration last May, the Council and the Commission welcomed the United Nations Secretary-General’s proposal to set up this Global Fund. Back in July, the Commission announced its intention to commit EUR 120 million to finance it. It was only last month, however, that Parliament received the documentation enabling it to begin its work. Furthermore, the documentation was incomplete and did not allow us to work properly. It is only fair to note that, in the last fortnight, Parliament and the Council have demonstrated more of the willingness and flexibility required to reach agreement on the amendments we wished to introduce. I trust the latter will be adopted tomorrow morning. In our view, the additional nature of the contribution to the Fund is a key issue. As stated in our Amendment No 2, the first EUR 60 million from the 2001 budget should be added to existing resources and not withdrawn from other budget lines already earmarked for development programmes. As stated in Amendment No 3, the EUR 60 million in question should not pre-empt or impose conditions on future annual contributions. This is clearly stated in our Amendment No 4. I shall probably be tabling an oral amendment on this tomorrow, Commissioner, prior to the vote. In our view too, given the very nature of these diseases it is crucial to maintain the Union’s contribution to the fund over a period of time. The fight against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria must continue to be pursued energetically in the years to come. If it is not, it will be unsuccessful and the EUR 60 million we are contributing will be to no avail. Parliament cannot abrogate its responsibilities as a budgetary authority. In Amendment No 6, we therefore request the Commission to make all the necessary information available to Parliament. As stated in Amendment No 7, the last of our amendments, we shall then be in a position to guarantee the suitability, transparency, sound management and working practices of the Global Fund. A report will duly be prepared, and should be included in future annual reports on contributions to external aid that the Community will be required to present. Mr President, unfortunately the crisis in Ivory Coast means that today we have once again to deal with this country – which was not very long ago a good example of political stability – its economic progress and the living conditions of its inhabitants. Six political groups in this House are sponsoring a resolution, which we will certainly approve this very morning, in which we essentially call for the strict application of the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement as the surest way of re-establishing the Rule of Law and the peaceful coexistence of all the parties in conflict. I entirely agree with the Commissioner, Mr Nielson, who has just stated that all efforts will be doomed to failure if the conflicting parties do not show clear signs of goodwill to achieve those agreements and live in peace together. I must say that this lack of vocation or capacity for agreement amongst them seems to me to be the most serious obstacle we are facing in terms of achieving peace in Ivory Coast. A few months ago this Parliament visited the country and spoke with representatives of the whole of civil society, the authorities and the opposition. What we saw was not in every case a good example of a will to resolve the crisis. It is well known that the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement was not accepted with satisfaction by significant sectors of Ivory Coast society. When Mr Gbagbo returned to Abiyan, he was received with huge protests against the agreements which he himself had accepted – then he told us that he had not signed them, using a kind of double language which seemed to me to be unacceptable. Within the government itself, some of the ministers representing what we could describe as the ‘rebel sector’ gave a clear demonstration of what it means to be a rebel. Their words were not at all friendly towards the other part of the government, to which Mr Gbagbo belonged. Mr Gbagbo himself, who was very friendly and very pleasant and who, during a meal which we were invited to in the presidential palace itself, explained to us his view of the problem, he said things in the presence of many of us who were there – no less than 10 or 15 people – which I believe do not point in the right direction, such as, for example, that he had to strengthen his army and that he had plans to buy certain military materials in the countries of the East. We believe that this is the completely wrong direction. There are other examples, such as the ethnic issue, which, as we say in the resolution, is not at the root of the conflict and is probably not its only cause. But I must say that this issue of ethnicity and Ivory Coast citizenship was brought up in all our conversations – several dozen of them – during which every one of our interlocutors spoke about the problems caused by the thousands, hundreds of thousands of people originating above all from Burkina Faso who create problems and who are victims – themselves, in many cases – of violence. I therefore believe that we must continue to make every effort to ensure compliance with the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement, establishing greater coordination between all the parties with the DAC, the United Nations and the European Union. Having seen what we have seen, and in view of what I have summarised briefly, I cannot be very optimistic about the immediate future of that country which is so in need of peace. – Mr President, the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on whose behalf I speak, broadly supports the report by Mr Dary and, in general, rejects the Commission’s proposal. The European Commission has made this proposal supposedly in a spirit of consensus but, frankly, having analysed it at length with the best will in the world, I cannot find a single reason to accept it. I take comfort in the fact that I am not the only one. The Commission’s proposal has not been well received by anyone, neither by the Community producers, nor by the ACP countries. It seems that the Council cannot easily accept it. Parliament does not like it either. What is even more serious however is that not even the United States like it. In this proposal, the Commission not only renounces the defence of Community interests and the interests of the ACP countries but has also, in my opinion, abandoned the minimum degree of neutrality required. The World Trade Organisation condemned the system of licences in force, which must undoubtedly be modified. However, the Commission proposes many other things. It proposes removing any type of quota, and I would like to ask: does it intend in the future to remove the system of aid to producers? Has the Commission decided to begin the reform of the common agricultural policy with a reform of the COM in bananas? After bananas, will other sectors fall? When will we stop protecting Austrian white wines, for example,? This clearly remains an open question within the WTO. However, after the experience of Seattle, I suppose that we should have learnt something from the point of view expressed by the developing countries and, especially, in this case, by the ACP countries, with whom we have commitments and obligations to fulfil. It is in defence of our obligations and commitments to the ACP countries that the amendments have been presented on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation. – Mr President, the POSEI programmes were proposed more than 10 years ago as aid instruments for what we now know as the outermost regions. In the three versions for the regions and departments of France, Spain and Portugal, the POSEI were designed and implemented as an expression of the political will of the Council and the Commission to stimulate the development of these regions, which are among the most disadvantaged in the Union due to their remote and island nature. With the inclusion of the new Article 299.2 of the Treaty, the outermost regions now have a sound legal basis that has enabled the Commission to propose these new POSEIs. In the budgetary context defined by the stability agreement reached in order to allow Economic and Monetary Union, the financial statement proposed by the Commission complies strictly with the criteria of budgetary neutrality. I must say that practically all of the additional spending is compensated for by the savings as a result of the reform of Agenda 2000. Despite all this, the Commission’s proposals respond to their desire to fulfil the commitments that have been gradually made over recent years, as is the case with cattle and milk production in the Azores or the inclusion of tomato production in the Canary Islands, to name just two examples. There are still, of course, a few aspects left to resolve, such as the case of some products, especially in the agriculture and food processing industry, within the specific supply arrangements for the Canary Islands, which will have to be resolved as part of the decisions to be made in the Management Committee responsible, given that if the conditions envisaged at the moment were maintained, the result would be unsatisfactory. . – Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, after so many debates on the banana problem, today we are a little closer to finding a satisfactory solution. I do not wish to get too excited, since we have been holding debates like this for eight years and we will hold more. Today, however, after the agreement reached in the Council, the Commission’s latest proposal is closer to the position often expressed by a majority in this Parliament over the years. The Committee on Development and Cooperation, on whose behalf I am speaking, supports the Dary report, since it responds to the fundamental problems. It maintains the quota system which safeguards the sale of Community-produced bananas, it establishes a system of licences through the ‘first come, first served’ method, which conforms to the standard rules of world trade, and it provides for a non-automatic transfer to a tariff system which will require an assessment report on its possible impact. This proposal has already been accepted by Ecuador, the world’s leading banana producer and one of the parties which has complained to the World Trade Organisation. Commissioner, it is true that we still have certain reservations and differences. We in Parliament are asking for a transitional period of ten years whereas the Commission proposes six; we are asking for a tariff of “a minimum of EUR 300” whereas the Commission says “a maximum of EUR 300”. These are differences, it is true, but now we are talking a similar language, which is radically different to the one we have used for years. Commissioner Fischler, I am glad that you have increased your flow of information. Mr Schwaiger said during the previous debate that you should have information which further supplements all the different points of view on the problem. You recently visited the Azores and you have recently been in the Canary Islands and you undoubtedly have a fuller view of the problem, which is still very complex. For example, we feel bound to express our concern about banana production in certain ACP countries, in the small producing countries of the Caribbean and in certain countries of Western Africa, which have traditionally been suppliers to the banana market and to whom we have commitments that we cannot ignore. Hurricane Mitch in Central America has unfortunately given us an example of what we find unacceptable. In certain countries – Nicaragua, Honduras, and Guatemala – Mitch destroyed the banana plantations. Certain multinational companies, instead of contributing to the recovery of economic activity there, moved their business to other less affected areas and even to other countries, ignoring their obligations to thousands, or tens of thousands, of families and farmers who were on a wage of 10 dollars. This is not the model of development that we Europeans want to see. Some Members have expressed their concern about the negative consequences suffered by certain sectors, especially in the United Kingdom, as a result of the devious measures applied by the United States, which I believe do not conform to the GATT agreements. We believe that the best way to help these companies is to find a way to resolve the conflict as soon as possible. Therefore, we do not believe it is a good idea to postpone this debate, as certain people have suggested over recent weeks. We have achieved a complex and delicate balance on this issue. The Dary report was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and also received the unanimous support of the committee on whose behalf I am speaking. I believe that the amendment tabled at the last minute by Mr Vatanen does nothing to help this issue, and I would ask him, if he is listening, to consider the possibility of withdrawing it. –  Mr President, I must first of all offer my congratulations and thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Marques. I congratulate him because he has produced an excellent report responding to a demand from the Canary Islands – one of the outermost regions of the Union that has some specific tax features, supported on a sound legal basis (Article 299(2) of the Treaty). I thank him because, through his excellent work and his flexibility, he has managed to gather a solid parliamentary majority around him which makes it seem likely that the report will be approved within the next few hours, which will put an end to a long parliamentary journey that began almost two years ago. The economic and fiscal regime of the islands is the backbone of the statute of autonomy and self-government of the Canary Islands, the current version of which derives from the Treaty on European Union and Spain’s Treaty of Accession to the European Communities, although over the centuries – ever since we were brought under the Crown of Castile, even before Castile was Spain – it has often been modified to suit the circumstances of the moment. The question is therefore about certain historical rights, which are no lower in status than the fiscal peculiarities of Luxembourg or some of the British Isles, to mention only the case of countries where these measures have come up against some stiff opposition, paradoxical though it may seem. Those Members who have tried – and are still trying – to change the rapporteur’s text with their amendments are upholding legitimate interests – there is no doubt of that – but interests linked especially to the tobacco, alcoholic beverage and spirits lobbies, which do not now coincide with the interests of the Canary Islanders, the vast majority of whom have, through their legitimate representatives, declared their position along the lines of the Marques report. Just as the Spanish Government has done, by virtue of its Constitution, just as the European Commission is doing – it has seen that this project is valid and does not run counter to Community law – and as is reflected by the broad agreement within the Council, which may well approve it in a few days’ time, once Parliament has pronounced on it. The Canary Islands will thus have a good economic policy instrument, which will allow them to diversify their resources and enhance their economic and social development, stop the decline of their already weak industrial sector and, if possible, stimulate its growth, especially in the food processing sector. If this happens, it will help retain jobs and create new ones in a region of high unemployment, while offering alternatives to the islands’ risky dependence on the tourist industry. The Canary Islands cannot continue to grow just on the basis of receiving a few hundred thousand more tourists every year. This year we will have had twelve million visitors; this brings benefits, of course, but it also has sometimes devastating effects on our sustainable development: on some islands the annual number of tourists far outweighs the total number of permanent residents, generating a number of problems. These will only increase in future if we do not step in to correct this trend, which is what this regulation aims to do. For all these reasons and others mentioned by the rapporteur and some of the speakers, this report must be approved and, as a member of the European People’s Party, that is what I hope will happen. – You may be certain, Commissioner Patten, that this report is of the greatest importance to Parliament. In the Committee on Development and Cooperation we have dedicated a great deal of time to humanitarian aid policies and you know that on this issue, in general, you will always have our support. Firstly, I must today express my gratitude to the officials in ECHO and the staff of the NGOs who, in extremely precarious circumstances, when everything is failing on the ground, are the first, the most self-sacrificing, and often the only ones to provide essential humanitarian aid. I must remind you that in Rwanda, in Kosovo, in Mozambique, in Central America, the sacrifices, sometimes of their lives, of those working in cooperation with us, have been some of the most inspiring stories in the history of the European Union. In the small amount of time I have for this intervention I must add that I agree with the Imbeni report and, in particular, I would like to highlight the following issues. As has been said, we must clarify the so-called dilemma of the ‘grey area’. We must clarify the procedures and, in some cases, the legal basis and the responsibility of each party, in order to make the management of ECHO more efficient. I have already referred to the problem of human resources, as well as the problem of visibility, and the objectives must be clarified. In certain cases, in Cuba for example – as you know, Commissioner – in the guise of humanitarian aid, programmes are implemented which are no such thing, but simply a form of concealed cooperation, sometimes for reasons of ‘ideological solidarity’ with the Castro regime. For the future, it is necessary to improve management, increase cooperation with our partners, improve complementarity with the actions carried out through the efforts of Member States and, in short, frame the humanitarian aid actions of the European Union within the global strategy of our cooperation policies. –  Madam President, Commissioner Patten, Commissioner Nielson, I would firstly like to pay tribute to the thousands of innocent victims in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, victims of an attack on our principles, on our democracy, on our system of freedoms, on our way of understanding peaceful coexistence, on our economy, an attack, at the end of the day, on tolerance between peoples and ideas. The European response has for once been fast and immediate in the case of this Parliament. The response of the Commission and the Council has also been quick, as Commissioner Patten has just reminded us with regard to the mission by the Troika. This is a response that should be firm, forceful, proportionate and selective, in cooperation with the United Nations, and which requires political, military and police measures by the intelligence, diplomatic, legal and economic services which have, in one form or another, already been or are in the process of being adopted. These must be measures that can be adopted and upheld in the short, medium and long term. I have to remind you that the magnitude and gravity of events is such that the decisions taken here a few days ago that have still not been implemented have already been superseded by events. I remember several opinions expressed here by various speakers on the occasion of the Watson report on the European Union search and arrest order just three weeks ago. Mr Massoud, who came to visit us a short while ago, has been assassinated and so will not be able to see to fruition the objectives he spoke to us about here in Parliament. As a member of the Committee on Development and Cooperation I would call for the implementation of a major humanitarian aid programme that must be put in place immediately to help the millions of displaced persons and refugees in Afghanistan, Pakistan and other countries in the region. The humanitarian disaster that is on the horizon could be of a greater scale than any that has taken place in the past as a result of human barbarity. I shall conclude, Madam President, by stating that the fight against poverty in the world, that we have highlighted on numerous occasions, is now particularly relevant and that we should make it one of our top priorities if we want to solve this problem in the short, medium and long term. –  Madam President, I have listened very carefully to Mr Patten. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the efforts made over the past decade, the situation in Mercosur and Latin America in general is once again a cause for concern. The regional associations are adversely affected and Mercosur is suffering serious problems, preventing it from getting off the ground. We do not know if the Argentine crisis has reached its lowest point, Uruguay and Paraguay are experiencing serious difficulties and Brazil, despite considerable aid from the International Monetary Fund, is, at the very least, cause for certain doubts. The European Union and each Member State can and must do far more. The de-institutionalisation of the region, the loss of prestige of parties and politicians, the strong upsurge in certain populist movements and tyranny that have caused so many problems in Latin America are all worrying. We cannot continue to sit by passively observing the extreme situation in Argentina. Mr Patten, if we look at the Union budget, the budgetary headings allocated to the development of the region of Latin America as a whole do not always confirm what you have just told us. It is true that Mercosur has regressed, just as Mr Patten said. It is also true that in Argentina, it is the leaders themselves who must adopt measures to prevent the situation, which is already serious enough in itself, from worsening. This involves economic, fiscal and financial measures and sacrifices requiring still greater effort for the Argentine people. The Union and its Member States, however, should adopt drastic measures to kickstart these countries’ economies, which should be covered by the Community budget, and which are not currently included, giving special priority to exports and showing the necessary courage and resolve so that our representatives in the international financial bodies can adopt these measures urgently in order to prevent further delays. – Mr President, the recent Euro-African Summit in Cairo has made poverty one of our central concerns. As the author of the general report on poverty approved in the Bahamas by the EU-ACP Joint Assembly a few months ago, I would like to say that the fight against poverty must become one of our objectives and, in many cases, our main objective. In this context, education, together with health, is the tool with which we can implement an ambitious programme to win the fight against poverty in the world. Education is a universal human right and the key to sustainable human development. It is the basic responsibility of the States and, above all, an achievable objective if we mobilise the necessary resources. For this reason, we are supporting this initiative and we urge the Commission to mobilise the necessary budgetary and economic resources and to adopt the relevant institutional initiatives so that this objective may be achieved. – Mr President, with this report on the regulation on the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests and other types of forest in developing countries, and with the previous report by Mr Wijkman, Parliament is reaching the high point today, with the corresponding vote tomorrow, of its first exercise of its new codecision competences in the field of cooperation and development. It has taken the procedure a long time to come to an end, since we have spent almost three years on the first and second readings and on the debate in conciliation. As rapporteur, I would like to express my satisfaction that such a long period has been fruitful and has enabled us to reach an agreement on the text of the regulation which I am today asking Parliament to vote in favour of. We started from very different positions. Basically, the differences between Parliament and the Council concerned the budgetary funding of the programme, the timetable and commitology. Parliament had proposed, in previous stages of the procedure, numerous amendments which the Council and the Commission have accepted and I must say – it is fair to recognise this – that the Commission’s management of the previous programme, its high level of execution and its good results, have meant that the rapporteur, with the support of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, has been able to persuade the Council of the need to maintain the programme with a sufficient degree of funding to guarantee its success. The tropical forests and their various functions and usefulness to humanity can contribute to a large extent to the achievement of the Union’s aims, not only in terms of development and the environment, but also with regard to its objectives of fighting poverty and sustainable economic and social development. With the regulation, the European Union provides appropriate financial and technical aid with a view to promoting conservation and the sustainable management of tropical forests and other types of forest in developing countries, so that the forests may play their role as generators of wealth and social development with the sustainable environmental criteria which is expected of them at local, national and international levels. The regulation says that the sustainable management of the forests must seek to improve the living conditions and well-being of the populations within the limits of the capacity of the ecosystems, maintaining the natural heritage and its biological diversity. This must be done by promoting the active participation of the populations which depend on the forests and the local communities in the creation of policies and planning in the field of development. To this end, it is necessary to improve coordination and the flow of information between Commission projects – those that the Commission will present in the coming years – and those of the Member States, in order to achieve more coherent actions and therefore a more efficient use of resources. In terms of the budget, we should be pleased that, after the restrictions which, in general, have resulted from the plans for reconstruction in Kosovo, we now have a contribution of EUR 249 million, having started with an initial Council proposal of EUR 9 million, for a period of 6 years, from now until 2006. This will provide sufficient funding to fulfil the objectives, at least with the same efficiency with which they have been fulfilled during the period which is coming to an end now. Nevertheless, in the field of commitology the differing positions of Parliament, especially the Committee on Development and Cooperation, and the Council are well known. Our position is more inclined towards giving greater competences to the Commission in this area. We have not managed to reach an agreement, since this agreement is waiting for the problem to be dealt with globally. However, at least the Committee on Development and Cooperation can feel satisfied because, on this question of commitology, an agreement has been reached which will allow us to establish the necessary budgetary estimates and a precise timetable for maintaining up-to-date information on the strategic guidelines and the priorities for implementing actions for the coming years. To sum up, Mr President, this is a sound agreement for a sound programme for the conservation of the tropical forests. Mr President, this debate is close to the hearts of the citizens of Europe. At the Seville European Council it was stated clearly that the Union needed to make a determined effort to combat illegal immigration. An integrated and balanced approach was advocated. The aim was to combat this new form of exploitation of human beings, which affects women and children in particular. Day after day, these individuals appear at the Union’s borders. They arrive all along the southeastern flank, right down to the southernmost tip of Europe. Following the Seville Council, Parliament and the Commission have worked hard to structure and develop what should become a common policy on immigration and asylum. For some time now, the Committee on Development and Cooperation has been emphasising the need for greater cohesion of our aid policies with the countries where these migratory flows originate and within the framework of the Union’s external activity. This would facilitate the development of more effective ways of managing such flows. It certainly is important to strengthen more efficient border policies. Much more is needed, however, if the desired objectives are to be attained. It is essential to develop a relationship of mutual trust and cooperation with immigrants’ countries of origin. Only then can the underlying reasons for the migratory flows be dealt with. Only then will it be possible to increase and improve ways of combating poverty, which is, of course, the real reason for immigration from developing countries. The Union must aim to integrate joint management of migratory flows effectively into its relations with third countries. To that end, aid agreements must include a commitment by all parties to discharge their respective responsibilities in the fight against the gangs. On both sides of the borders, it is the gangs who profit most from exploiting human beings in this way. Their activities amount to nothing less than a new and sophisticated form of slavery. All action taken by the Union should also help to stimulate wealth creation. The latter is a crucial factor in the promotion of codevelopment. Illegal trafficking in immigrants is a new kind of slavery. It provides ample opportunity for exploitation in the workplace. It is also a breeding ground for corruption and an entry route for individuals who could pose a threat to security. Readmission agreements should become a new feature of the Union’s relationships with third countries. Finally, I should like to point out that in the course of this last year, the size of the very substantial financial flows generated by immigrants’ remittances to their home countries has been much in the limelight. Handling charges for such remittances are outrageous. In some cases, they amount to outright usury. I am aware that this is outside your competence, Commissioner, but I feel bound to say that the Commission ought to be able to put in place appropriate legal instruments to ensure easy and secure transfer of the fruits of immigrants’ labours. These funds could be used to promote codevelopment initiatives in third countries. They could also be used to support initiatives designed to strengthen civil society and the private sector in those countries. All this would be very much in line with the conclusions of the Monterrey Conference. A few steps in the right direction have indeed been taken during the past year, and I should like to thank Commissioner Vitorino for his valuable input. Sadly, however, there is still a long way to go. – Madam President, our colleague and friend Laura González began her speech with a quotation from the Argentinean writer, Julio Cortázar, about the prostitution of the words democracy and sustainability, but this House has not forgotten where Chernobyl is and is aware that Mr Castro’s Cuba is full of democrats, as we all know. Mr Lannoye is proposing a report that has two-fold merit in that it seriously and vigorously tackles the problem of sustainable development, but without fundamentalism and with the necessary flexibility to accept the majority of the amendments tabled by the political groups. The amendments that I tabled, which were incorporated into the rapporteur’s text, aim to improve the efficiency of the management of funds contributed by the Union and to achieve greater transparency and, all in all, better use of the available resources. I would like to highlight the most important aims in the report as being combating poverty and fostering sustainable development, providing channels for globalisation that has a human, rather than a virtual face, a commitment to rational resource management, all within the context of the necessary promotion of democracy, the rule of law and combating corruption at all levels, not only in developing countries, but particularly in the Western world. With this report, the European Parliament is making a clear commitment for the issues that are still unresolved since Rio to be resolved in Johannesburg, and for that summit to rectify the mistakes made at the Durban Summit, scarcely a year ago, when bitter and futile controversy meant that the desired progress could not be made in achieving the objectives that had been set. – Mr President, with regard to Mr Medina Ortega’s intervention a few moments ago, which you responded to by saying that his interpretation was incorrect, I must tell you that your reply was not correct either. Please do not ask me to name any particular Member, but I guarantee that some of the 32 members who voted in favour of the request for a quorum are no longer here. Therefore, some of the 32 Members have violated the Rules of Procedure. *** – Mr President, as Commissioner Nielson has already stated, this debate marks the inauguration of the new competences of the Committee on Development and Cooperation in the field of codecision. The aim of the regulation under discussion today is to establish measures designed to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests in developing countries, in order to guarantee the funding necessary to maintain and make progress with the actions and projects which have been under way for this purpose since the adoption of Regulation 3062, valid until December 1999. This is the financial instrument by means of which the Union can fulfil the obligations arising from the Agreement on biodiversity, the Framework Agreement on climate change and the Agreement on the fight against desertification. All these agreements indicate that developing countries must be supported in the search for solutions to the problem of their forest resources. Between 1990 and 1995, over 56 million hectares of forest, distributed unevenly in various parts of the world, were lost but, without a doubt, this particularly affected developing countries as a result of the increased amount of land used for agricultural purposes, the construction of infrastructures, or due to natural disasters and fires. We are therefore facing a problem of the first magnitude, not only for developing countries, but also for the whole planet and all the living beings that inhabit it, a problem that Parliament has already spoken about at first reading at the end of the previous legislature on 5 May 1999. Since then, a long, and sometimes difficult, negotiation process has been taking place within the Council, which did not reach a common position until December 1999, and between the Council, the Commission and Parliament itself, in search of the necessary consensus. All this took place under the restrictions caused by the approval of a budget which imposed limitations in various respects, and in particular the need to allocate funding to implement the special plan for the reconstruction of Kosovo. At first reading, Parliament approved a total of 34 amendments of which the Council, in its common position, has totally or partially taken up 18. Of the remaining 16, some, and in particular Amendments Nos 5 and 6, are no longer relevant following the interinstitutional agreement on the 2000 budget. The debate and negotiations that we have held with the Council and the Commission have focused on three topics: the budget, dates and comitology. The rapporteur particularly wishes to highlight the hard work and flexibility shown by all concerned in the search for a consensus on the budget, so that, from an initial figure of EUR 9 million from the B7-6201 line, which implied a total of EUR 73 million for the whole period, we have reached an agreement that implies the provision of EUR 249 million for the next seven years as a whole, starting with the EUR 30 million already stipulated in the budget for the year 2000. Based on this budgetary agreement, which includes an agreement on dates, the differences have focused on aspects of comitology derived from the historic positions of Parliament and the Council itself that, with a view to the future, in my opinion – and not to insist on the problems made manifest in Mr Wijkman's intervention – I believe that they should be revised in an interinstitutional agreement in order to speed up the parliamentary legislative procedure and make it more efficient. Finally, I wish to request the support of the House with regard to Amendments Nos 1, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12, and a negative vote for the others, which, if successful, would break the agreement reached during the discussions with the Commission and the Council, which would oblige the whole negotiating process to begin again, paralyse some of the actions and projects under way and undoubtedly cause serious problems in the policy of conservation and rehabilitation of the tropical forests that we are trying to develop. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by saying that my feelings about this debate are bittersweet. On the one hand, Mr Deva has defended this own-initiative report which he has worked on for a long time with great dedication and taking up many interesting contributions. I would particularly like to highlight the consultations he has held with all the governments of the developing countries in order to hear their opinions and suggestions, in particular what these countries expect from the Millennium Round. The result is this report, which comes with the unanimous backing of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, to be voted on tomorrow. But allow me, Mr President, to mention the less pleasant aspect of the issue. In the recitals, the rapporteur mentions more than twenty documents, resolutions and international agreements of recent years which demand more decisive action to fight poverty and the list is not exhaustive. 22 years have passed since Willy Brandt presented his impressive report on North-South relations. Since then, things have only got worse. We know about the examples of success, but unfortunately there are many, many more cases which show that, after decades of persistent growth, this world has never been less egalitarian; never has the distribution of wealth been as uneven as it is now. I therefore believe that we cannot continue merely to make proposals, even if they are as interesting as those made today by Mr Deva. The problem of poverty throughout the world – including Europe – is not economic; it is a political problem, which requires political and global solutions. It is pointless to seek the people responsible, as is currently happening in Johannesburg. We do not have guilty and innocent parties here, just victims. And all the rest of us are guilty to a greater or lesser extent. The financial resources approved in Monterrey, which have been mentioned by the representative of the Commission, represent a step forward, but everyone agrees that they are insufficient. The international organisations cannot continue to be the guardians of orthodoxy while one country after another falls victim to crises, not just in Africa, but also in Central America, South America and in other regions. I wonder why the representatives of the European countries, which constitute a majority in the International Monetary Fund, are not able to opt for new formulas which speed up the development of the poorest countries and those countries which are becoming poorer as a result of bad government and corruption. The regional economic blocs, apart from our own European Union, are not living through good times. We only need think about Mercosur or the Andean Pact. We must be tougher in our demands for progress in the direction set in Doha, in order to bring about greater openness in the markets, which will stimulate world trade. We must apply pressure in order that those who have resources may contribute more of them. The Commissioner has mentioned the data relating to the European Union, which are certainly the most important data given for development aid in the world. But the trend is not satisfactory, Commissioner. Official development aid in the European Union has been decreasing over recent years. Therefore, the data are as you say, but the trend illustrated by the current data is not acceptable to us. We must promote and stimulate more democracy and the development of human rights, of health, of food and of education for all. Also, and above all, in the developing countries. We must fight aggressively against corruption in all its forms, which exists without doubt in the least developed countries, but which also exists – and this is more reprehensible – amongst us. I agree very much with Mr Deva’s comments on the greater involvement and co-responsibility of the large multinational corporations, but I must say that many of these leave much to be desired, and that their actions now move in the opposite direction. These are the essential elements if we are to shed light where there is only gloom (to recall Conrad), but let us demand more action, more decisions and fewer words. –  Mr President, we feel the Commission Communication is highly relevant and Mr van den Berg’s report adds certain contributions that enrich the original text. He has shown flexibility by accepting the majority of the amendments tabled, and, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to say that we shall vote for the report. In fact, many fora and macroconferences have already been held in relation to the need to increase efforts to eradicate poverty, which is undoubtedly the most serious problem we face. It is something of a coincidence that, with the resources now available, it will not be possible to achieve the objectives set for 2015. It is good, however, that, within our limited means, we are focusing our attention on health and education, which are so closely linked and interdependent. It has been clearly shown that health and education, education and health, are the best policies for development, that they enable millions of human beings to escape poverty. It is true that some progress is being made, as stated by the rapporteur. In Africa, for example, 60% of children today attend school, which means that 40% are still not attending. In other words, 45 million children are condemned to illiteracy and poverty, probably for life. New difficulties have arisen in some countries. The tragedy of child soldiers means that, in some West African countries, mothers prevent their sons from attending school for fear that they will be kidnapped and not return home, as we have seen recently, last week, in Ivory Coast, in a report by various agencies and other NGOs present on the ground. The problems of gender segregation are still causing an unsustainable situation in some Asian and Middle Eastern countries. In Latin America investment in education has dropped alarmingly over the past few years of crisis throughout the region, and this affects ethnic minorities in particular, as the Commissioner has pointed out today, in Brazil, Ecuador, Guatemala, but also in countries such as Argentina, which until now had an excellent education system but is now moving backwards. By attending school, both boys and girls can and should receive a basic education that contributes to improving health, not just in relation to HIV and the ways in which it is transmitted – as the rapporteur reminds us – which, although it is a serious problem, is no more serious than other problems that could be alleviated more cheaply. This is the case of food hygiene, to cite just one example. I feel it is particularly necessary for international financial organisations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, to review their criteria and make them more flexible in order to promote free, universal education. That is now one of the priorities we must address and try to achieve some progress in this specific area. . –  Mr President, the world today is more interdependent than ever before. Problems are shared problems: poverty, hunger, military conflict, immigration, transmissible diseases, ecological disasters and the like. Efforts to solve them must be coordinated and shared by all. Here the question of development aid has become more important than ever. Now is exactly the right moment, to my mind, for the Commission to have produced its communication to the Council and to Parliament, which we are debating today. The report I am presenting today, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation is the fruit of work and contributions from political groups and from my fellow Members, for which I am particularly grateful and appreciative. As we know, the European Union and its Member States constitute the world’s leading donors of government development aid. The traditional mechanisms of the European model have not, however, allowed the desired aims of cooperation to be achieved with complete success. It is difficult for us to ensure that the results are monitored or to assess them accurately, because the implementation of the programmes and projects is dispersed among both national cooperation agencies and fixed procedures which tie the receipt of aid in different ways to the acquisition of goods and services obtained by means of that aid in the donor countries. According the World Bank’s figures, released here in this Chamber during a speech by the bank’s President, Mr Wolfensohn, the untying of aid would result in a reduction of transaction costs by up to 25%. We therefore welcome the Commission’s initiative, which may help to enliven the debate on this issue. That debate is currently being conducted among Member States and multilateral organisations. They are far from reaching an agreement which would be binding on all parties, and on the main donors in particular. I am convinced of the need, in this debate, to uphold the idea that aid priorities should suit the interests of recipient countries. That idea would seem almost too obvious to any observer, but it is not currently being put into practice. As a result, some European countries play a significant part in cooperation as official aid donors, but the money they make in return for delivering that aid exceeds their own contributions to the aid programmes, sometimes by a long way. This practice is known to all of us, I believe, and it is clear proof of a degree of cynicism among the donor countries – in other words, our own countries. We must make an effort, therefore, to try and remedy this state of affairs. Of course, events do not take this kind of turn through a deliberate and evil desire for them to turn out badly, but for a whole range of reasons which cannot be gone into here. The main thing is that we use the experience we have acquired to push for these ideas to be implemented, bearing in mind certain considerations, such as those mentioned in paragraph 4 of our report, in order to ensure that our objectives are achieved and certain undesirable effects avoided. In other words, for example, it would be helpful if the Commission were to bear in mind the need for horizontal and geographical or regional budget lines to be treated equally, so as to introduce and guarantee open, transparent calls for tender, which do not always come about. These calls for tender will apply to all Member States and candidate countries, all developing countries and all developed countries, on condition that they are reciprocated by third countries and approved by the recipient countries. I will conclude by making express mention of a request made by many developing countries and NGOs. That request is that priority be given to the award of contracts to local suppliers or service providers in both the recipient country and neighbouring countries in the same region, on condition that provision is made for sufficient training to ensure that the projects are brought to a satisfactory conclusion rather than left frustratingly unfinished. The reasons for this are many and plain to see; it would be almost too obvious to list them, but they can be summed up by evoking the desirability of contributing to the development of local markets in those countries. – Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I would like to say that we are against recourse to the urgent procedure, for fundamental and for procedural reasons. The facts are as follows: the Commission has proposed a contribution of EUR 60 million to the Global Fund to fight AIDS/HIV, tuberculosis and malaria. We are not against this proposal, but we do not believe that this can be a single contribution, made just once, if this objective is to be fulfilled. We are arguing for a solid and sustained contribution, not just for one year. This is why we do not agree with the urgent procedure; we intend to present amendments, which is our right in accordance with the codecision procedure applicable in this field. The Commission, in asking for the urgent procedure, is doing so in a way which is unacceptable to Parliament, since it deprives us of this essential and irrevocable right. The Commission announced its contribution to this fund in July; it told us about it some months ago and it announced it publicly in Genoa more than three months ago; and now it wants Parliament to express its opinion on this important issue in just one week. – Mr President, for the European Union this is simply one more debate of the many that we hold. For the outermost regions this is the most important debate that the European Parliament can hold concerning them. In fact, what we say here today and how we vote tomorrow will be front-page news in the seven outermost regions, and the news reports on the regional television channels will report extensively on what we say and decide here. For many Europeans, some outermost regions are nothing more than a holiday destination on the map. This may even be the view of some of our fellow MEPs of the outermost regions. For those of us who are speaking here tonight on behalf of our native regions, this is a very negative view, and, of course, a deeply mistaken one. Behind this idea, beyond our landscape and an exceptional climate, is the social and economic reality of regions that are among the least developed in the European Union, with the highest levels of unemployment and with huge structural problems that impede our development. For more than a decade the European Commission has been aware of our problems and our particular characteristics. This is the first debate that the plenary session of the European Parliament has held about our regions since the Treaty of Amsterdam included a new article on them. So far, since an interdepartmental group was set up for the outermost regions under the presidency of Mr Delors, we have travelled a long and fruitful road, and I must express the deepest gratitude of the Europeans from the outermost regions to those who have presided over that group. The Commission document for implementing paragraph 2 of Article 299 of the EC Treaty is a good document, and our rapporteur, Mrs Sudre, has done well today by offering us an excellent report. With this Article and with the measures taken in order to implement it, we have a legal basis that until now we were lacking, and a good tool for our development. Mrs Sudre has succeeded in putting together a balanced report that includes many of the amendments – more than 100 of them – which were tabled for the initial draft report. One of these amendments proposes the implementation and application of the policies of the financial instrument for fisheries. What I wish to highlight here today, Commissioner Barnier, is that, for the outermost regions, while Community law fully applies, it is essential that those rules be modulated and adapted in order to stimulate rather than impede their economic and social cohesion with the rest of the European citizens. The internal market and the rules that govern it do not benefit the outermost regions to the same extent that they benefit Europeans on the continent. The natural limitations of our island markets, thousands of kilometres away, mean that our businesses have difficulty being competitive: problems with transport, communications, supplies, running costs. This is why we have so many problems generating wealth and creating employment. Our unemployment levels are among the highest in the European Union. It is therefore necessary to implement a series of measures which Margie Sudre’s report covers in detail. In our view these measures need to go beyond regional development policies, because our shortfalls and handicaps are structural, not temporary. We will always be far away and we will always have difficulties because of the fact that we are islands and because of our landscape, which is beautiful but also harsh and difficult to overcome. We are not asking for subsidies. We want to have tools that will enable us to develop. The outermost regions bring Atlantic, American and African dimensions to Europe, which enrich our cultural, political and economic diversity, of which we are all rightly proud. Mr President, the rules which regulate cooperation between the Union and the countries of Asia and Latin America date from ten years ago. In ten years, there have been certain changes in the world. In Asia, certain countries have made progress in terms of consolidating their democracies and their development has been given momentum. Unfortunately, in other Asian countries, the situation has deteriorated in all areas of political, economic and social activity. In Latin America, following a decade of democratic progress, the 1980s, and another decade of economic reforms, the societies of all countries, with certain notable exceptions, are experiencing a profound economic and social crisis. In both regions the fight against poverty has not only failed to achieve any notable success, but rather, on the contrary, in Bangladesh and in Haiti, in Afghanistan and in Bolivia, poverty is engulfing more and more social groups. In some cities now tragically renowned for their precariousness, such as Calcutta, there is no room for optimism, but in others, such as in Tucumán, in Argentina no less, poverty and hunger chronic hunger amongst children are things we have never seen until now. We therefore believe to be timely, and we welcome, the proposal the Commission is making with this Regulation, which amends and updates those which have been in force up until now. This Parliament, in paragraph 61 of its resolution of 15 November 2001, declared itself in favour of a separation of the Commission’s initial proposal, one applicable to Asia and another to Latin America. This our only objection to the proposal we are debating today, which is no small objective certainly, but I would like to stress that in terms of the fundamentals of the issue we support the Commission’s proposal. We agree with the objectives which take up our commitment to the fight to eradicate poverty, not only in terms of the financing and co-financing of projects to promote development, but prioritising education, health and strengthening civil society in order to strengthen democracy, transparency and good governance, without which democracy will not be strengthened and the desired development will not achieve its objectives. We agree with the financial framework, with the increasingly prominent role given to the countries receiving our cooperation, as well as the steps being taken in the process of decoupling aid in the manner intended by recently approved directives. All of this is what we wish to achieve through our amendments. We disagree on a formal question which we cannot abandon out of coherence with our philosophy and our view of a European policy for such priority areas as Asia and Latin America. It is not a question of political prestige, Mr Patten, nor of prioritising one region over another, as one of our fellow Members has said during this sitting. Throughout these long months of parliamentary negotiation we have held talks with numerous governments involved, with their ambassadors here in Brussels, and with many, many NGOs which work both in Asia and Latin America. All of them, I repeat, all of them, without exception, without a single exception, have said that they prefer two regulations: one for Asia and another for Latin America. If we say, and the Commission also says, that we want to adopt the principle of co-participation in our cooperation from the moment programmes are established and not just in the management and implementation phase of a project, it does not appear coherent now to do the opposite. Today, tomorrow with the vote, a codecision procedure can begin in which Parliament does not wish to, and cannot, renounce its prerogatives and in which we believe there is margin for negotiation with the Council. I will end by congratulating the rapporteur, my colleague and friend Mrs Sanders-ten Holte, who has worked very well, who has tried everything, who has done so very well and I thank you, Mr Patten, for your willingness to hold the dialogue in which I hope we will be able to continue to make progress in the coming months. – Mr President, I have two observations with regard to the Minutes. The first is the least important: on the first point, with regard to the votes on request for urgent procedure, the first point voted on was on the fisheries agreement with Morocco. I was here and voted in favour, but this has not been recorded in the Minutes. I was here, and I spoke immediately afterwards. I would now like to refer to the second point. With regard to the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, yesterday morning a deadline for tabling amendments was set for 10.00 a.m. this morning, in order that the debate may be held tonight, probably at the last minute. The political groups were working yesterday in order to be able to table amendments, and today I see in the Minutes that the item has been added to the agenda of Wednesday 28 November and that the deadline for tabling amendments has been set for Thursday 22 November. I would like to point out, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, that we cannot work upon the text submitted by the Commission, that we were working on yesterday. There is only one version available in one language, and, in addition to this, in this language there are different versions of the same text with various discrepancies between them. Lastly, to give just one example, and I shall finish on this note, Mr President, it states that the Commission is proposing a single contribution of 120 million, yet it does not state whether these are euros, dollars, condoms or DDT. I think that the Commission should provide a text that is correct, tell us which of the texts is the final version, and make this available in all of the official languages. . –  Mr President, this Commission communication comes in response to the provisions of the Council Regulation on the Special Framework of Assistance for traditional ACP banana producers, whose objectives are to improve the competitiveness and support the diversification of agricultural production in those countries. I would like to emphasise that significant sums, about EUR 44 million, were allocated to this aid project in both 2001 and 2002, and that the Commission has told us the results of the programme for those two years. It gives me particular pleasure to say, firstly, that efforts to diversify production increased during that period, and, secondly, that those efforts were based on incentives for agricultural and rural development projects. Both of these achievements fulfil or express desires noted as objectives by both the Commission and Parliament when this programme was approved. I ought to mention, however, that some problems have been encountered. The Commission is undoubtedly aware of them, but they should be solved through the prompt adoption of certain corrective measures. Firstly, there have in some cases been significant and repeated delays, not attributable to any individual’s deliberate wishes, in mobilising and implementing appropriations over the last few years. These delays, however, have as a rule created significant difficulties for farmers in the producing countries, some of which are among the 40 poorest countries on the planet. Some of these farmers have told us of their doubts and, particularly in the case of West African farmers, of their disagreement with the methods used by the Commission to assess farmers’ competitiveness, on which the Commission’s criteria for allocating appropriations are based. This assessment method takes into account average production costs, insurance and transport fleets as detailed by Eurostat. These figures, though, do not constitute a single definition. That causes mistakes of more than minimal significance in some cases. They are sometimes very significant mistakes, to the detriment of some of these countries. Commissioner, I am concerned at the decline in the amount of assistance allocated in the 2003 budget, especially as we approach the changeover from the current system to a tariff only system. That changeover may have very negative effects, not only on production in traditional ACP countries, but also on European banana-producing regions, if, when the moment comes for us to move from the current system to the tariff only system, we are unable to adopt the right measures. I will conclude by appealing for two concrete changes which are very important to Parliament and also, I hope, to the Commission: greater efforts to avoid any delays in payment from now on; and assessments of growing and production methods, with the aim of withholding funding from those projects having a negative effect not only on the environment but also on the health of banana workers in producing countries. The use of biodegradable substances in the banana-growing process should become a priority here. – Mr President, I am against the proposal that has been made. This is firstly because the Cunha report has been approved by a majority in the Committee on Fisheries. And not only that; the philosophy of this report is the one maintained by this Parliament in successive reports on the evaluation of the MAGPs. In response to Mr MacCormick’s specific question, on whether paragraph 6 undercuts, or not, the principle of relative stability, I would point out that paragraph 6 in no way undercuts that principle. It simply proposes, as a possible penalty against those who fail to comply with the MAGPs, who are the people who do most harm to resources, a temporary suspension of quotas, which is not a definitive suspension, nor does it imply the transfer of quotas from some Member States to others. In short, the principle of relative stability is maintained as are – and this frightens some people – the key points on distribution of the principle of relative stability. Therefore, I would like to tell you that there is not the slightest danger of that principle, the sacred principle of the common fisheries policy, being attacked. It simply proposes serious penalties – and because they hurt a lot, some people will complain – which should make the protection of resources more effective. () –  Mr President, I still have my doubts as to the methods used, especially in Mr Poignant’s report, and I still believe that the opinions of the fisheries sector expressed at the regional meetings deserve a more thorough examination. In addition, Mr Gallagher and Mr Poignant have presented views in many cases contrary to the measures that the CFP should contain. We cannot fail to recognise the effort that has been made  to try to unify viewpoints, but the European People’s Party believes that in some fundamental areas there are still some clear contradictions. We have therefore tabled a series of amendments above all to try to eliminate the impression that Parliament does not have a definite attitude towards the future of the CFP, because that is not the case. It may be that we do not agree on specific measures, but if something comes out of these reports it is that Parliament is in total agreement with the fisheries sector in that the CFP requires some fundamental changes. I therefore ask for our amendments to be approved, because far from entering yet again into sterile discussions they reflect this desire for change and the need for careful thinking about the fisheries policy, with our sights set on the future and not the past. If there were no clear need for this, the Council of Ministers last month would have given some indication that this were the case. Things cannot go on like this. The fundamental flaws that have encumbered the CFP since the beginning have to be paid for by the industry at the end of every year with a series of increasingly brutal cuts to its operations. When you come to the extremes that have been reached this year, you have to wonder what economic sector could survive with these rules of play. If resource levels are getting worse and worse, it is because a sequence of failures in the policy that governs fishing not only allows it to happen but actually causes it. A sector constrained by a series of outdated, contradictory and often incomprehensible rules can only have very limited responsibility in this state of things, and yet it alone has to pay the price. The CFP is in need of very far-reaching changes that will provide solutions for a fishing industry which, unlike the rules which govern it and even despite them, has managed to survive and has done everything it can to evolve and continue to provide coastal regions with wealth and jobs. That is why I must again stress that, when there is evident dissatisfaction with the resources policy, the brilliant results of which we have just seen yet again at December’s Council meeting, with a TAC system that encourages discards, when issues such as relative stability and freedom of access have yet to be resolved, not to mention the matter of bringing the only Community policy that still discriminates on grounds of nationality into line with the Treaties, the Commission cannot seriously propose a draft Green Paper like the one it has drawn up. If the Commission really believes that the future of European fisheries depends not on the simple modification of a regulation, but on the proposal of measures already contained in current regulations, if the Commission’s great proposal and great discovery for the future CFP is to be multiannual TACs and the encouragement of aquaculture, perhaps the moment has come, Mr President, to ask in all seriousness for it to make room for other people who can bring in new ideas and the tiniest sense of responsibility. – Mr President, this House may be listening for the last time to words relating to what, for fourteen years, we have known as the fisheries agreement with Morocco. Tomorrow, on voting on the report we are debating today, our institution will write the last page of a story that has been told since August 1987, when the European Union signed its first fisheries agreement with that country, but which for Spain goes back almost twenty-five years. There are therefore Community fishermen and ship owners whose lives have been exclusively linked with the existence of the Moroccan fishing grounds. Our obligation today is to close this chapter with the greatest possible dignity and responsibility towards this sector, which is going to suffer an unprecedented fisheries conversion. We must thank the Commission for their efforts over the last two long years to try to make tomorrow’s vote unnecessary. But, given that the situation is irreversible, we must also recognise the solidarity contained in the Commission’s proposal, its recognition that the end of an era cannot be marked by the spectacle of us being miserly towards those people who are waiting anxiously for this plan in order to carry on living and working, the financial cost of which is fully justified. We hope that the other institutions have sufficient dignity to accept this need. The amendments introduced by the Committee on Fisheries, above all, contribute to adding a greater degree of flexibility in order to allow Community solidarity to truly benefit a very heterogeneous fleet, which over the last two years has not ceased to seek its own solutions; solutions which greater legislative rigidity may contribute to blocking. Furthermore, our main obligation is to approve this report in order to provide the necessary legal basis so that on second reading of the budget the necessary appropriations can be provided to finance the restructuring plan. This restructuring plan will no doubt put an end to part of an historic fleet, but it must not mean the end of fisheries relations with Morocco. It is impossible to imagine that Morocco really wants to turn its back on the European Union, amongst other things because we share two seas and we are obliged to be neighbours, and Morocco can only benefit from this proximity. I therefore ask the Commission to remain receptive and promote any mutually beneficial fishing cooperation initiative which may arise in the future. It only remains for me to thank the rapporteur for the wonderful work she has done. – Mr President, we can only express our satisfaction at the conclusion of a new fishing protocol with a third country, with which we already enjoy a long history of working together. This protocol guarantees three things of enormous importance: the continuation of the supply of fish and Community employment; the safeguard which is always offered to a fishing region by the presence of fleets which, like the European fleet, are subject to regulations and responsibilities in relation to the control and management of activities, and, naturally, the Community contributions to improving the local fishing sector, contributions which are specifically laid out here. I therefore ask that you support the three amendments which have been presented by the rapporteur and the Committee on Fisheries. However, we do not feel able to vote in favour of Amendment No 4, which insists that the whole cost of the agreement be financed by the shipowners. Although this is a traditional demand by a political group in this House which has always been rejected, to propose it when another more than controversial protocol has just been concluded, in which the shipowners involved not only do not pay the 25% which is paid in this case, but pay absolutely nothing, is particularly offensive. Furthermore, in view of the agreements concluded with the countries of the North, it is incomprehensible to read in the explanatory statement that there is a lack of transparency in the agreement with Equatorial Guinea. To begin with, in this protocol, all the items, including those on cooperation with local fishing, are not only itemised, but are set out to the last penny, something which does not happen in other agreements, where any differentiation between what is financial compensation and what is development aid is non-existent. We must put an end then to attempts to create more obstacles for certain agreements, which, compared to others, are exemplary in terms of transparency and details, something which the Council agrees with, having called for greater equality of treatment since 1997. While we are on the subject of agreements, I would like to end by mentioning the Commission’s working programme for this year, whose timetable for the renewal of protocols is incomprehensible. By way of example, the negotiation with Cape Verde, which has been pending since November of last year, does not even appear in the Commission’s timetable. And in the majority of cases, the mandates for negotiation that have been planned are contingent on the agreement being concluded, as in the flagrant example of Gabon, an agreement which expires on 30 March and whose mandate for negotiation is planned for the fourth quarter of the year. Commissioner, I am sorry to say that the least the Commission can do is keep its agenda up to date. Anything less is shameful. – Mr President, it surprises me that some MEPs are once again on the attack, with the same argument that they have used before, because the previous point also related to the admissibility of paragraph 6. I believe that the great majority of Members have made it clear that we are in favour of this paragraph, and we have already voted on it. If you like, I will repeat the same arguments. Paragraph 6 does not undercut the principle of relative stability because it respects that principle and the key points on distribution. The previous speaker said that there are doubts. We would have to be sure, if we wanted to reject paragraph 6. If you have any doubts, clarify them first. I have no doubts, Mr President, and this Parliament has already expressed its opinion. –  Madam President, I should like to thank Mr Nicholson for the swiftness with which he has submitted his report. This will enable us to vote tomorrow on a Commission proposal which very much needs to be implemented. I should like, however, to raise a series of questions that have occurred to me regarding Amendments Nos 1 and 2, which ask that the changes in fishing techniques to be adopted under this proposal should be subsidised under the FIFG. Although in principle I have nothing against aid to fishermen, I do think it should be granted within a specific framework and in accordance with unequivocal criteria, and this is the basis of my question: to clarify what these criteria are. The rapporteur invokes Articles 15 and 16 of Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999 in support of his request for aid. I think in any case that only paragraph 2 of Article 16 should be invoked, and I should therefore like the Commissioner to clarify whether the requests in the report would come under the text of the said article. If the measures contained in this proposal can be financed under Article 16(2) of the FIFG, this would mean that any technical measure involving a major restriction in fishing activity could be too. It must be remembered that by definition any technical measure involves some restriction on the activity. I think it is worth making this point clear, because it is obvious that any technical measure means an economic loss for fishermen, either directly or indirectly. If this is the criterion that must be followed, it is also clear that if measures such as those proposed are subsidised, then subsidies will also have to be given to any others deriving from a modification of technical measures which would result in changes in the use of fishing techniques or methods, in other words virtually all the reforms under the technical measures regulation. Commissioner, I should really like you to clarify this point, seeing that Article 16(2) is open to all kinds of interpretations. I should like to know what interpretation the Commission gives to Article 16(2). Thank you, Madam President, and I forgo one minute of my time this evening, which is getting rather long for everyone. – Mr President, I would also like to thank Mrs Attwooll for her cooperation leading to a compromise which, in my opinion, very much improves the Commission’s two proposals, which were originally untimely and doomed not to be complied with. It is hard to accept that, six months before the end of a programme to restructure the fleet, the sector can be told, without scientific or technical justifications, that fishing capacity cannot be reduced by means of restructuring efforts and that the only solution is pure scrapping, all because the Commission made a small calculation error four years ago. And that, furthermore, while they are at it, they take the opportunity to turn the bases of MAGP IV and key elements of the FIFG Regulation on their heads, which is completely unacceptable, and I believe there is general agreement on this here. If we add to this the fact that the greatest burden of the new requirements, as has been said, rests on the elimination of the facilities intended to improve the safety of ships, it begs the question of whether the Commission ever thinks about the fisheries sector when it starts coming up with brilliant ideas at the last minute. I therefore ask that you vote in favour of the amendments of the Committee on Fisheries because I still cannot understand, and the sector understands even less, what is the point in reserving safety measures just for vessels of less than 12 metres, when it is precisely the largest ships which have more crew and work furthest from the coast and therefore face considerably more risk and, in the event of emergency, have most difficulties getting back to port. And all of this with winter just around the corner and in waters which, like European Atlantic waters, are not exactly a mill pond. It is fair to recognise that the Commission tried, from the outset, to coincide the end of the MAGP IV with the reform of the CFP in 2002. But, since 1997, it knew that it was not going to manage it and on that basis the Commission should have started work on an MAGP V which would have eliminated the errors committed so far and, meanwhile, simply extend the MAGP IV. And extension, Commissioner, cannot in any way be used to change the rules of the game which we have had up to now. Mr President, this proposal aims to incorporate into Community law an ICCAT recommendation from 1998 which should have been binding from June 1999, but which only reached this House at the end of last year. The Commission’s legislative delay on certain issues should not surprise us, but for the fact that this is a recommendation from one of the most important international fisheries organisations on the protection of such a threatened resource as tuna. The Mediterranean, particularly in some zones, is an extremely important spawning area for the bluefin tuna which is of enormous commercial value. This is why ICCAT recommended this closed zone in the Adriatic and toughened the conditions for catching zero-age fish. As rightly said by the rapporteur, both measures are totally and fully justified which is why we have no alternative but to ask for their approval. However, I also agree with Mr Gallagher who felt bound to indicate his frustration at the tardiness of the Commission in getting into gear and transforming the recommendations into Community law. We are, for example, still waiting for the proposal for a regulation on banning the import of bluefin tuna from Honduras and Belize. The recommendation for this dates from 1996. Apparently, according to my information, the Fisheries Directorate-General sent a note last January to the Trade Directorate-General which is still on the preparatory work. Four years to apply this ban on imports from countries known to favour flags of convenience is absolutely unacceptable. We have listened to the Commission’s explanations about the long internal process involved in transposing legislation. This has simply left us with an image of an exasperating bureaucracy. Yet I have my doubts about the only proposal currently on the table to improve this process which would involve doing away with the Council and Parliament procedure. It is clear that we must find a solution to this problem, either at the time of the Commission report on regional fisheries organisations or, if possible, before then. –  Mr President, the regional fisheries organisations are today without doubt the best, if not the only, guarantee for the management of world fish stocks, and they are likely be even more significant in the future. The rapporteur has understood their importance perfectly and has drawn up an excellent report, which highlights the real weakness of the communication. Very good intentions which can only become reality if there is a genuine political desire. When we think that, of all the coastal countries in the world, very few have the economic, judicial, legislative and political potential that the European Union has, that should tell us how much we should be asking ourselves what our responsibility is. Yet the Community neither gets involved nor takes a lead; the very most it does is react. But it reacts with such paltry means and so little foresight that in the end it is like sending David out against Goliath. Except that in the Bible David won, which is not the case here. I have been an observer in some regional organisations and I can assure you that it is pathetic to see two or three mid-ranking officials, exhausted and hardly getting any sleep, trying to react to problems that could be seen coming months earlier and facing high-powered delegations, which are high-powered either because they are from great powers like the United States or Japan or because they have followed an intelligent policy of forming alliances in advance. As the Directorate-General for Fisheries is currently being restructured and may gain more staff and better resources, I believe we should demand that priority be given to strengthening this area. It would mean, first of all, not having to confine itself to reacting to actions like that of the Galapagos Agreement and its manifest intention of unilaterally extending the jurisdictional waters of four countries in defiance of the basic norms of international maritime law, or against attempts to arbitrarily expel Community fleets, which are among the few that are governed by strict standards and regulations. Similarly, the Commission has the obligation not only to properly represent us in the international maritime sphere but also to take the initiative. It should thus promote the setting-up of new regional organisations, beginning where the Community already has a presence, such as in the western Pacific and south Pacific. In view of the expected restructuring, I should like to ask specifically for a unit to be set up for large migratory species, the need for which has already been noted by the Commission insofar as it has drawn up a number of regulations just for these species, which are the main target for flags of convenience, a pirate scourge that inexplicably is spreading ever more widely. In conclusion, I reiterate my support for the rapporteur’s magnificent report. –  Mr President, first of all I should like to congratulate Mr Busk, because he has done an excellent job. Our group is going to support this report from the first line to the last. I also thank him for the collaboration which we have had with him at all times in the work we have carried out. The report echoes yet again the request by this Parliament that the European Commission should make an example of and apply truly dissuasive penalties to those Member States that repeatedly fail to comply with the fleet objectives they have been assigned, so as to avoid once and for all that the general objectives for the Community fleet should be forever jeopardised, despite the very high social and economic sacrifices made in some regions of the Member States that have traditionally complied. This lack of compliance with the MAGPs has led the European Commission to present its proposal to extend MAGP IV until the end of 2002, unfortunately setting out a number of conditions which are absolutely unacceptable. In a further attempt to adapt the fleet to the resources, the Commission has again forgotten that there are countries that have broadly complied with their objectives, and is presenting a global proposal which will punish everybody with the threat of new cuts in fleet size and the intention of withholding aid for the modernisation of the fleet. As I have said so many times (the last time was right here, during the last part-session), the structural aid for modernisation is the only guarantee to maintain a competitive fleet and to ensure the best conditions for the quality of Community fisheries products and the quality of life and safety of our crews. Far from understanding it in this way, the Commission shows it has completely lost touch with reality by persisting in suppressing such aid, and in real terms the new MAGP proposal literally says that it will suppress the article that allows fleets to seek modernisation, for safety reasons. With the review of the common fisheries policy, the Commission talks a lot about listening to those involved and consulting the industry and the administrations. Time and time again, they have all made it perfectly clear – and they are unanimous in this – that they consider the modernisation budget to be indispensable. Because of all this, I ask the Commissioner to explain to me the reasoning behind this proposal – Mr President, this year we once again have before us a Commission report on the Member States’ compliance with the measures relating to the restructuring of the fleet, adopted in 1997. It once more beggars belief that the Commission has been able to draw up a report with the jumble of information sent to it by some Member States which, in our opinion, makes it a practically useless document. The Commission report indicates four modes of behaviour on the part of Member States with regard to their obligations to comply with the Multiannual Guidance Programmes (MAGPs). A few, incidentally, as well as complying with the global objectives for restructuring the fleet, send harmonised data – as Community regulations require. Others, the majority, continue to send data mixing up the GTs and the GRTs, which makes it very difficult to measure their degree of compliance with regard to the reduction in tonnage. A third group consists of two Member States who do not comply with the global objectives of the MAGPs at all. Lastly, a third Member State sends no data whatsoever and has failed to do so for three years. This constitutes an intolerable form of discrimination, not only amongst countries which comply with their global objectives at the expense of imposing great sacrifices on their fleets, but also amongst those which, while not complying with them, at least respect their obligation to publicise their data, as a result of which they are penalised for the fact that that data is not in compliance. The same does not happen with a Member State which, ignoring all relevant Community regulations, has withheld its data for three consecutive years and therefore, since this data is not available, cannot even be penalised. This is such a travesty that only through a great sense of responsibility will we be able to persuade the compliant States to continue to adapt their fleets to existing resources and not the opposite. The sad result is that we continue to impose these obligations while not really knowing, at the moment, how many vessels the Community fleet consists of and, less still, its tonnage. In this regard, the Commission has made it known that a study by experts will be available next month on the sizes of the fleets in all Member States, apart from one, and I would like to know whether that is the usual one. Does that mean that, next year and in subsequent years, Mr Cunha will have to return to present us with another of his excellent reports on the evaluation of the degree of compliance with the MAGPs, warning of the danger caused by some Member States who continue to believe that the safeguarding of Community resources is someone else’s problem? Mr President, this situation has to end. Therefore, for very good reasons, our rapporteur is calling for penalties, in the form of reductions in fishing quotas, not only for those who do not comply, but also for those who hide the facts and commit fraud. It is clear that the penalties contained in the new FIFG are a step forward, but they are not sufficient to prevent a situation of non-compliance which has already been going on for too long. We therefore support the rapporteur’s demand for measures which will act as a genuine deterrent and we consider, given what some people think, that this type of penalty is totally appropriate: firstly, because the situation has reached the point where we have to strike where it hurts most; secondly, because, although quotas are not included in structural policy, non-compliance with the MAGPs threatens resources. The protection of resources is the ultimate aim of the common fisheries policy. Mr President, after what has happened this morning, I would like to say one thing: while I have always been convinced by the quality of Mr Cunha’s reports and proposals on this subject, this time I am even more convinced, and I believe that he really has put his finger on the problem. I would like the other two institutions, which have to adopt resolutions on the subject, to realise that the application of effective penalties could really resolve the problem of excess fleet which the Community is currently suffering and thereby protect our resources and, above all, our fishermen. . – Mr President, as I think that you all already know, the negotiations to renew the fisheries agreement with Morocco came to an end without that renewal having taken place. You will also be aware that the negotiations went on for an extraordinarily long time, 15 months, which placed the Community fleet in a truly unprecedented position, stopping activity for a period that had not been foreseen by Community legislation. Article 16 of the FIFG Regulation, in letter b) of Paragraph 1, allows the temporary inactivity of vessels to be funded if a fisheries agreement is not renewed for 6 months, which may be extended for 6 more months, following the presentation of a conversion plan. This period and the extension period ended on 31 December, while we were still in the middle of negotiations with Morocco. The Commission realised then that shipowners and crews could not be left unprotected while the negotiations continued, which is why the proposal for a Regulation that is being voted on today was presented in order to change the legal basis of the FIFG Regulation with two objectives: on the one hand, enabling the aid to be extended for 6 more months, until 30 June, and on the other hand, authorising the Member States concerned to exceed the threshold of 4% of the FIFG budget that they may use for aid due to the inactivity of the fleet. The period had, obviously due to the extraordinary nature of the situation, had already been long exceeded. It was therefore a totally reasonable proposal. However, when the report that we are debating was practically finished, the Council of Ministers in April considered the negotiations to be completed, and in May the Commission had still not presented its proposal for measures that would consider the conversion plan. We know that the Commission intends to put forward a proposal for a Regulation in this respect at the next Council of Fisheries Ministers on 18 June, but for technical reasons it will not be able to be adopted until 3 July, which will cause a considerable delay in the timetable, given that consultation by the European Parliament is also provided for. The shipowners will also have to be able to closely consider the options available to them, according to the type of vessel that they have, as choosing between scrapping their vessel, locating it in another fishing ground or forming a joint venture with a foreign partner are business decisions that cannot be taken lightly. On the other hand, the workers concerned will probably have to wait even longer, as they will be dependent on the decisions of their companies in order to know, for example, whether they are going to leave a fishing ground in order to fish in another or if they are simply going to be unemployed, in which case the formula chosen will be scrapping. It is obvious that these decisions cannot be taken before 30 June, when the formulae that will ultimately be offered to them are still not known now. Therefore, before this report was voted on in committee, I introduced an amendment to change the dates of the Commission proposal and put them back from 30 June to 31 December. The Committee on Fisheries understood the situation perfectly and, also taking into account that extending the period does not carry financial consequences for the Community budget, as the aid will continue to come from the FIFG of the Member States concerned, it decided to unanimously support the amended content of the report. I therefore hope that in the light of the reasons that I have given and following the unquestionable support of the Committee on Fisheries, this plenary will be able to also adopt the text that is being voted on today. Meanwhile, I would not like to finish without being able to congratulate the two rapporteurs and especially, from my point of view, for the Committee on Fisheries, Mr Poignant, and I assure him that our group will support his report. I would like to highlight Amendment No 5 to that report, because I think that it fits in much better with Article 29, Paragraph 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999, which allows a maximum contribution of 50% to SMEs in the outermost regions. We should not forget that measures to modernise vessels tend to be what makes the difference between a competitive business and a business in difficulties, as well as ensuring that its workers have a more decent employment. Precisely for this reason, they should be the last public investments that should disappear or stop being well provided for financially. –  Mr President, I too should like to welcome this proposal for a regulation from the Commission which improves upon certain control measures within NAFO. I have often voiced my opinion that NAFO fishing grounds are undoubtedly among the most regulated in the world. Such vigilance is sometimes the result of excessive mistrust, on the part of some Contracting Parties – who have almost unlimited power in NAFO - towards other parties who operate completely legitimately. We all remember the unjust and regrettable incidents that took place a few years ago, regarding a Community vessel. These incidents were the product of suspicion bordering on persecution which has often concealed a desire to throw a smoke screen around management errors in some coastal states. This is why I must applaud the fact that this proposal aims at incorporating into Community legislation three NAFO recommendations on controlling activities of vessels of non-Contracting Parties, and in particular non-Contracting Parties whose activities are, without a shadow of a doubt, much more suspect than those of any Community fleet. As is usual procedure when discussing the transposition of measures into Community law, I must once again express my disappointment over the Commission’s delay in starting to work on adapting legislation. If it is indeed true that the proposal covers NAFO’s latest recommendations on sightings and transhipments from its annual meetings in 1998 and 1999, it is also true to say that this represents nothing more than a reworking of the 1997 recommendation, which is only now being taken into account. Besides this now traditional complaint, this proposal for a regulation represents an opportunity to debate the real problem of flags of convenience and discuss what the European Union is doing to deal with them. Given the current state of marine resources, and at a time when there is growing awareness of the need for real protection of marine ecosystems, the fight against illegal fishing must become a priority and vessels flying flags of convenience should be first on the list. The European Union is responsible for taking the lead in the fight against such harmful forms of fishing and must be capable of putting forward its own alternatives. The first step must be to propose unified and clear measures in the fight against such activity to Member States. The aim of such common rules is to ban the flying of such flags and stop Member States allowing these fleets to dock in their ports. Currently, not all Community ports are aware that, directly or indirectly, they are often providing cover for illegal activity. We can only develop their awareness through an information campaign and by introducing rigorous measures to accompany it. – Madam President, I would also like to welcome the Commission’s initiative of presenting us with a report on its strategic objectives for the next five years, although I hope that it intends, in subsequent documents, to avoid the excess of generalisations and the vagueness of the text which we are examining today. Having said this, Madam President, I am prepared, once again, to be a voice crying in the wilderness as a result of the absence of a fishing policy. It is really surprising that the Commission does not treat the revision of one of its common policies as a strategic objective for the coming years, in view of the reform which must take place in 2002. There is no doubt whatsoever that this revision process will be the most important thing to affect the fishing industry for many years. However, it seems that the Commission does not share this view, although it is the Commission which is obliged to present the Council and Parliament with a report on the functioning of the common fisheries policy over the last decade before the end of 2001, and it is on this basis that the Council will have to make the appropriate decisions with regard to its modification. In fact, the revision process has already begun for many bodies and institutions, such as the European Parliament, which in 1998 already issued and adopted a report pointing out all the current problems and deficiencies of the common fisheries policy. We have often asked for a basic timetable for this revision and we have received no reply. Less than two years is not much time if we bear in mind also that the fishing policy is anomalous with regard to the internal market regulations and that such anomalies should be resolved within the framework of this reform process. Therefore, Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I would ask that this issue, which is of vital importance to a very significant industry within the European Union, be taken into account in this strategy and these strategic objectives for the next five years. Mr President, I should like to express my appreciation to the rapporteur, Mr Jové, for his splendid work and for always being willing to collaborate with members of the Committee on Agriculture. I should also like to thank the European Commission for its report on quality strategy for olive oil and for the draft regulation. Both these documents are sound in principle. Nonetheless, the proposal in question has been much improved by Parliament’s report. Allow me to highlight a number of areas where this is the case. Regarding checks, we fully agree that they should basically be undertaken at the level of the oil mills. This is a far more efficient method of monitoring. The geographical oil information system should become complementary to it. Secondly, as far as mixtures of olive oil and other fats are concerned, we advocate a total ban on marketing. In so doing, we are responding to requests made by the producer countries. The consumer can easily be misled by such mixtures, and olive oil’s reputation will be adversely affected. It should be noted that this in no way restricts consumer choice, as any individual interested in such a mixture can produce it for personal consumption. Thirdly, following revision of the COM in 1998 and the end of intervention aid buying, aid to private storage became the only way of regulating market prices. This measure has not been implemented correctly, however. As a result, price levels have been below the limits set by the Council for many months, when such measures had not been authorised. It is therefore very positive that Parliament’s report should call for the automatic opening of private storage. This will allow olive oil prices to be maintained at an appropriate level. Finally, I should like to refer to aid for the production of olive pomace oil. Its purpose is to ensure that the by-products of olive mills are handled in an environmentally-friendly way. We feel that such aid should be calculated with reference to the amount of pomace oil actually produced, and should not be awarded on a lump sum basis as is currently the case. Furthermore, this proposal is certain to have a beneficial impact on quality strategy. –  Mr President, I think the most important thing at the moment is that for almost a year we have been starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel and that in three days time – next Monday –, we will know what to expect, whether the fisheries cooperation with Morocco will continue and what type of cooperation this will be. This House has been quite rightly criticised along with the Commission regarding the agreement with Morocco, which from the outset has been addressed with tremendous hesitation and naivety. It has taken eleven months to arrive at the inflexible positions that we have today and the meeting on the 30th, and in this respect we should value the latest measures from Commissioner Fischler, the results of his trip to Morocco on the 26th of last month and the high level meetings that took place, including the one with the King himself. From this trip we can deduce that the meeting on the 30th will not just be one more and that finally, a Moroccan delegation will be present in Brussels with negotiating and decision-making powers. At least, that is what we can hope for at the moment, and from this alone we can be confident that fisheries relations with Morocco will be re-established as soon as possible and in the best possible conditions for both parties, because a fisheries scenario for southern Europe is unthinkable without satisfactory relations between both sides of the Mediterranean, while the needless sacrificing of a fleet that has contributed so much to the development of fishing in Morocco is unthinkable too. The resolution upon which we are preparing to vote does not, and cannot, contain anything new, since it is being voted on just three days before a key date for negotiations. As this key date is so close, I believe that we must be extremely careful with what is drawn up. There is one point in the resolution that has been interpreted in very different ways, some of which are truly ridiculous and false and have been published in certain sectors of the media. I am therefore particularly keen to make it clear that if there is anything that sets the PPE-DE Group apart, it is not only in supporting, defending and fostering fisheries agreements, but also in firmly promoting their extension. However, in no way can this mean that the PPE-DE Group is opposed to private fisheries agreements, simply because opposing them would mean condemning half of the Community fleet. I would very much like to know if anyone is really opposed to this solution, and how, and on what grounds, this will be explained to the fishing sector. I believe we are here to clear the way for the future of Community fishing, not to block it. Private agreements – of which there are many in the Member States and with many third countries – have yielded excellent results, both in maintaining Community employment and in providing fisheries products to the European Union. For example, we only need look at the case of Namibia, South Africa, Argentina, Chile, Brazil, Ecuador, Iceland, Mauritania, Morocco itself and many others. Furthermore, when we complain day after day about the fact that negotiations seem to be falling by the wayside, both the existing agreements and new ones, and the lack of interest that both the Commission and sections of the Council seem to be displaying – and here we have the recent cases of Angola, Cape Verde and Kiribati –, it is quite simply suicidal to block a path which is a solid base for the fisheries activities of the Community fleet, and could be even more so in the future. The two approaches are therefore completely justifiable, as both are based on the fundamental aim of conserving resources. We are therefore defending the responsibility that lies with us in the bilateral agreements and in private agreements, where the activity of the fleet is regulated – and will be even more so in future – by regional fisheries organisations such as ICCAT, NAFO and Camelar. I have nothing more to say, Mr President, except to express my hopes for the best before the meeting on the 30th. Mr� President, like my fellow MEPs and the Miguélez Ramos report, I must highlight the Commission’s arbitrary working methods. It is absurd that the Commission did not consult Parliament or the Council on reforming the Advisory Committee on Fisheries and yet it is consulting us on this proposal for a regulation to strengthen the dialogue between the Commission and the fishing industry. This means that the Commission did not consult us on the primary regulations but is doing so on the accompanying aspects. It did not consult us on the regulations establishing the dialogue but is doing so on how to strengthen this dialogue now it has been established. Yet the Commission’s reforms of such an important body as the Advisory Committee, which is the only body to involve the fishing industry in decisions affecting it, have prompted serious criticisms and doubts in Parliament, in the Council and in the industry itself. These criticisms involve the fact that a large part of the industry actually involved in fishing is not sufficiently represented on this new committee. Having said this, in short, the financial resources in the proposal are welcome. It only remains for me to congratulate Mrs� Miguélez Ramos on her report and, in particular, to defend the amendment which imposes the obligation to present Parliament with an annual report on the substance and conclusions of the debates of the working groups created by this regulation. I must also applaud the request contained in the opinion by Mr� Gallagher, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, for detailed reports on the distribution of funds among the various Member States and organisations which may benefit by this proposal. . – Mr President, I am speaking in order to present, and ask your support for, a new Fisheries protocol, this time with Madagascar – as you have said – with whom we have had relations since 1986. From the point of view of what has come to be called cost/benefit, it is an excellent protocol which clearly demonstrates the viability of this type of agreement for the European Union. In this case, the Community fleet, industry and market are ensured a stable supply of a raw material, tuna, of which we have a considerable deficit, by means of our own fleet, which means that many Community jobs will be retained, not only in the extractive sector, but also in the activities dependent on it. Furthermore, the protocol once again demonstrates that, in the Southern agreements, a high proportion of the fishing opportunities are utilised, in this case reaching 91% for tuna seiners. It is just as viable for Madagascar, which in addition to the EUR 308 000 in annual financial compensation, will receive a further EUR 517 000 for development aid actions, mainly aimed at improving the fishing control of the area and the training of its fishermen. Furthermore, the number of Malagasy seamen which must be employed rises from 6 in the protocol currently in force to 40 in the protocol under discussion. This is therefore a genuinely significant quantitative leap. Community fishing activity in itself does not interfere with small-scale fleets, since our fleet does not have access to the twelve mile zone. Meanwhile, the presence of the European Union in itself makes a significant contribution to the control and guarantee of greater sustainability of the resource. We must not forget that the fleet carries with it all the control regulations of Community policy, which is a very important element in terms of ascertaining the details of catches and the state of the resource in the region, to a degree which cannot be matched by all the other diverse foreign fleets that fish in those same Malagasy waters. Following this brief summary of the content of the protocol, and reminding you that, as a Southern agreement, the shipowners contribute to its funding, I would like to focus on two issues. I would like to draw your attention firstly to the fact that with this agreement, as in Southern agreements in general, there remains the possibility of granting licences to those interested Member States that would not have access to the fishing opportunities on the basis of relative stability, as demonstrated by the presence of Italy and Portugal. It is therefore time to ask the Commission once and for all to implement the views of the 1997 Council of Fisheries Ministers, which clearly request that fishing opportunities which remain unused may be used by interested Member State fleets in all agreements of the European Union. Secondly, I do not believe it necessary to point out that we are all committed to the development of third countries, as clearly demonstrated by the Lannoye report, which preceded the debate on fisheries. The fisheries sector has been one of the first to cooperate in this development, since its presence in the waters of third countries has been the catalyst for many of the first industrial centres in their coastal regions, if not the definitive element in terms of many nations now having taken on the genuine vocation of a fishing State. But, having said that, I believe things are reaching the point where clarification is necessary from several points of view. To begin with, we must not forget, as the aforementioned Council of Fisheries Ministers also made clear, that fisheries agreements are essentially of a commercial nature. However, they are increasingly becoming a complement to Community development aid policy. In the case of this agreement, the proportion intended for development cooperation actions is now rising to 62.6% of the total cost of the agreement to the Community budget. This situation raises many questions. Firstly, there is no reason why fisheries budgets should be financing the development policy budgets and, from the point of view of budgetary transparency, this state of affairs should be clarified as soon as possible. Secondly, this situation should also be clarified in order to silence those voices which complain about the high budgetary cost of the fisheries agreements, when in reality, as we have seen, considerably more than half of that budget is pure development policy. – Mr President, I would like this report to contribute to the Commission giving up once and for all its obsession that a modern fleet runs counter to the protection of resources. Protection of resources is a priority objective of the CFP, which can under no circumstances be put before any measure that promotes the safety of fishermen, because this is a fundamentally false approach. There are many measures for maintaining and even reducing the fishing effort, while at the same time enabling living and safety conditions for crews to be improved. The report that we are debating today, like all those that have been drawn up regarding safety, shows that the fact the fleet is so old is the main cause both of accidents on board and of sinking, and that sinking often has very serious consequences. The Commission’s plan to reserve the structural measures for the fleet almost exclusively for destroying it, while the surviving fleet is condemned to sail under increasingly precarious conditions, is therefore ridiculous. The only thing that is unfortunately achieved through this policy is that the Community fleet features more strongly in terms of accidents than in terms of savings. Also, there is no point in having a battery of safety standards if it is not required that they are complied with. This is doubly concerning because the fact that this compliance has to be monitored and required makes us wonder what perception the sector has of its own safety. The last FAO report on the world state of fisheries and aquaculture says that a safe working environment is not something that can be imposed easily and that measures for improving safety can only be effective if there is the will to put them into practice. We therefore need to remember the responsibility that we all have as politicians, governments and fishermen, to end the fatalism that seems to surround this sector, a responsibility that cannot of course be escaped by the Commission or its narrow view on the modernisation of the fleet. Mr President, the current common organisation of the markets has been showing signs of running out of steam. This is due to its inability to meet the new challenges of a highly globalised and competitive market in fishery products, in a European Union very dependent on imports. This House has, on many occasions, highlighted this problem and called for substantial changes. We are now finally debating the Committee on Fisheries’ report on a proposal for a regulation which does not just reform the COM but establishes a completely new system. This is not just any old debate but one which affects one of the four pillars of the Community fisheries policy. It must therefore be as productive and responsible as the debate we had in the Committee on Fisheries because this report, which I ask you to approve, is the result of a hard-won compromise between the political groups and the various sectorial and national interests. As rapporteur, I believe we should acknowledge that the Commission’s initial proposal significantly improved the current COM. In particular, it reinforced the fundamental role played by the producers’ organisations in the marketing of products. It also granted them increased and improved mechanisms for ensuring correct operation and more responsible fishing and marketing. However, our committee had to change the text of the proposal on two major aspects. In both cases this was achieved through the compromises which I have mentioned. The first compromise was reached by including aquaculture products and shellfish gathering for which no marketing aid was provided. Yet these are both subsectors which, like fishing, must be fully included in a system whose aim is to match supply to demand. They are also developing sectors in which production must be well planned so that crises, such as those which are periodically suffered by salmon producers, can, as far as possible, be avoided from the outset. The other aspect which we corrected is even more serious, if this is possible. As I mentioned at the beginning, this type of regulation should be prepared very carefully, particularly when proposing a change from a quota system to a system of indefinite tariff suspension for imports. Yet the Commission acted not just thoughtlessly but even frivolously and irresponsibly. Please understand that the Committee on Fisheries is not opposed to the system of tariff suspension. However, we must be certain that this system, which actually involves the voluntary removal of tariff duties, will not threaten Community companies which produce and market the same products. The Commission’s proposal included several products which are produced in the Community on a large scale. This is proven by the study being prepared at the request of the Council because the Commission’s figures lacked justification. For example, for one of these products – tuna fillets – this study establishes deficit levels of between 1 500 and 3 000 tonnes. Without considering any comparative information, the Commission was therefore recklessly prepared to stifle a Community sector which provides thousands of jobs. This would also have blocked its own systems of aid for the development of GSP-Drug and ACP countries just because of an actual import requirement of less than 3 000 tonnes which can be completely covered by the current system of tariff quotas. Although the compromise reached by our committee on this issue was particularly difficult to achieve, the facts seem to justify this. Following the political agreement achieved in the last Council of Ministers, both tuna fillets and herring now fall outside the tariff suspension system, in addition to another set of corrections affecting other products contained in Annex V. I therefore feel that the Commission’s proposal was not well prepared. In fact, it was dangerous and we are pleased with the Council’s correction which matches ours in making the compensation for withdrawals more flexible. With these two major changes incorporated in committee, together with others such as greater precision in labelling and information to consumers, this House is helping to prevent a text which has its good points from being ineffective due to its lack of realism. I therefore ask you all to approve this report. It only remains for me to thank all the Members who helped to achieve this compromise for their hard work and assistance. I ask you again to approve this report. Thanks should also go to Mr Gallagher for his excellent report. – Mr President, as we all know, species of highly migratory fish share a series of characteristics which require their fishing to be subject to a particular kind of monitoring. Their movements, both through exclusive economic zones and through free waters, their current regulation by four regional fishing organisations, their high economic value, which makes them the target of many fleets, and their association with species which are not subject to direct fishing, such as dolphins and marine mammals, explain the fact that even the United Nations has decided to intervene by means of the agreement on highly migratory species. Therefore, the Commission proposal to group together in a single text the technical measures for the conservation of these species, which have arisen from Community legislation and from the recommendations of the international organisations, is very appropriate and is generally to be applauded. There is no doubt that a single text will not only be useful to legislators and to the fleet, which will not have to refer to dozens of different regulations in order to find out what their obligations are, but that it will also contribute to finally improving control. It is even possible that a single text will respond to this Parliament’s frequent demand that the recommendations of the regional organisations be incorporated into Community legislation with a speed that we are still far from achieving. With regard to this proposal, Mr Piétrasanta has produced an excellent report and, furthermore, he has sought to place his trust in the opinions of other MEPs who are already involved in certain issues. I am referring in this case to the Commission’s peculiar intention to sidestep the ICCAT recommendation to restrict the number of ships authorised to fish long-finned tuna by means of the subtle trick of not including certain so-called ‘experimental ships’ in the restriction. When we are eight months away from the final ban on driftnets, when this species has just been subject to a TAC and when the ICCAT’s 1999 scientific report expressly warns against this so-called ‘experimental’ fishing, the Commission’s intention is quite simply irresponsible, and the tactic of transplanting a recommendation in one paragraph in order to remove its content in the next one is unacceptable. We know that there is already an internal Council agreement to try to lessen the impact of the ban on driftnets on certain Member States, but this has already been suitably compensated for within the Council by means of quota assignments. The intention therefore to limit the presence of boats, whether we like it or not, with a fishing tradition in order to open up the ports to new fleets is completely unacceptable and I therefore ask for your full support for the amendments tabled by the Committee on Fisheries. Mr President, it only remains for me to thank the rapporteur once again for his collaboration and to congratulate him warmly on his wonderful report. Mr� President, I have a question to ask the Commissioner which all the Members who have spoken have asked. Why did the Commission not consult the European Parliament on the reform of the Advisory Committee when this House asked to be consulted during the previous parliamentary term when this proposal was being considered? The Commissioner must answer this question and should also, in particular, formally undertake to ensure that this does not happen again in the future. – Mr President, the enormous pressure which the Council, this Parliament and the fishing industry had to put on the Commission has finally led to the achievement of a mandate for negotiation, hardly a month before the termination of the fisheries agreement with Morocco. It is never late if the outcome is good. And at least we have a good mandate, above all in view of its ability to seek different forms of possible cooperation and even new legal formulas which may allow us to maintain satisfactory fishing relations for both parties. However, we should regret the delay, which has created public alarm and a nervous state within the fleet which could have been avoided, and the speculation and declarations which may do more harm than good to negotiations which, given the importance of the agreement, should be held in a discreet, calm and cordial environment. But also because, at this stage, a halt in fishing activities seems inevitable, which will necessitate, as happened at the time of the expiry of the previous agreement, a search for extraordinary Community funds to finance time when the fleet is forced to remain in port.  I am not going to repeat the arguments which other Members have given and which illustrate the enormous importance of this agreement and its socio-economic repercussions. But I do want to insist that, for all these well-known reasons, the fleet is in suspense, and since it also has to pay for an ever increasing proportion of the fisheries agreements, it has stated that it is not prepared to not receive information regarding the progress of the negotiations. Natural discretion and reserve is one thing but secretiveness towards those who have everything to lose is another thing altogether. Unfortunately, Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries knows very well what it feels like to beg for information from here and there amongst the negotiators, even in these times of transparency and cooperation which we have just inaugurated. For this reason, like the industry itself, I believe that this time – and in this case I am particularly sorry that the Council is not here, because it is to them that I mainly address my comments – we must stand firm and show that, even though we have spent years asking and begging to be able to take part, as simple observers, in the negotiations of the fisheries agreements, this participation can no longer be postponed, Mr President. It is the case that, within the meagre budget which fishing represents in Community funding, the agreement with Morocco implies a relatively significant amount, so much so, Mr President, that it is the only agreement for which we are asked for our assent. We are therefore legally bound to the result of the negotiations and we have, therefore, the full right to first-hand information, without having to wait for the charity of representatives of the Council or the Commission who may come to inform us third-hand whenever they can or whenever it suits them. The citizens also demand information and we are the representatives of those citizens, elected by them and, for this simple reason, we have acquired the responsibility, in this case, to at least be informed of what is happening. Therefore, Mr President, I hope that the question of observers, which appears in at least one of the motions for resolution also signed by my group, is taken seriously for once. And to this end I ask, as other Members have done as well as the motion for a resolution, that this be, once and for all, a priority issue in the next tripartite meeting. Mr President, fishing is an extremely important economic activity which involves major investment. Most of its jobs are provided under fairly tough conditions throughout entire Community regions. However, some people’s view of the fisheries sector can be extremely simplistic, ranging from mere folklore to the insult of regarding fishermen as insensitive pirates and predators. I regret to say that this report, due to its link with the environment, seems to have provided an occasion for those with this type of view to introduce their own particular misconceptions. If Mr Katiforis’s report had been approved in its initial wording, none of the members of the Committee on Fisheries could have gone into any fishing region again without fear of being lynched. The relationship between fisheries and marine ecosystems is obvious. Yet it is very wide-ranging and involves many other factors including pollution and maritime transport. To blame fishermen alone for environmental damage is both unfair and wrong. Our committee avoided embarrassing itself by making a series of amendments of which I tabled 14, many of which were accepted by the rapporteur for which I thank him sincerely. Just when we thought the discussions had ended, a number of diverse amendments have been tabled in plenary which I ask you to vote against unreservedly. According to these, for example, the meagre fisheries budget should have to finance artistic heritage or encourage tourism at sea. Others, like Amendment No 4, which request financing for biological closures, also demonstrate a lack of understanding of fisheries regulations by requesting measures which are already in force, although admittedly there is room for improvement in these. I therefore ask you to reject the four amendments tabled so that we can close this chapter on fisheries and the environment with the thought which came up in the committee’s debate. These two areas are closely related and they suffer the effects of the same environmental attacks. As I have said many times before, the fisheries sector is more a victim than the cause of damage to the marine ecosystem and tomorrow we will be able to confirm this in the debate on the . Mr President, I simply wanted to pass on some news. There was a terrorist attack this morning in Madrid. Someone planted a car bomb and one person has died. On behalf of my Group, I once again condemn these terrorist acts. – Mr President, I am not going to talk at length on the great number of irregularities in this Protocol. We simply have to look at the text and compare it with the Council’s mandate to see how arbitrary the Commission has been. Furthermore, if we compare the Protocol with any other agreement with the South, it is frightening to think how sure some high-level officials in the Directorate-General for Fisheries must be of their position of impunity. That is the heart of the matter. Not the fact that there are EUR 300 million to solve the crisis facing the fleets affected by the failure with Morocco and that there is more than double to pay for fishing opportunities in Greenland which are not even worth what has been spent on their negotiation, not to mention the cost in terms of the loss of prestige and credibility of the Commission. Nor is the most important element the fact that, unlike the agreements with the South, there was no clause allowing new Member States access, nor the fact that only shipowners within the agreements with the South have to contribute to the funding of the external fisheries policy, nor the fact that it is impossible to control the spending of this considerable amount of tax-payers’ money. The important thing, Commissioner, is that this Protocol demonstrates in a few pages the extent to which the CFP can be arbitrary and unfair. Furthermore, the Director-General for Fisheries’ attempts at an explanation before our committee could be called laughable if the gravity of the situation did not make them insulting. He thinks it is completely normal to have double standards in terms of the benefits of agreements for the North or for the South. And he added unashamedly that Council ended by approving this Protocol. Of course we are also going to approve it, because we are very aware of the difficulties of ending up without a fisheries agreement. Neither do we have great hopes for an improvement in the mid-term review, since the Protocol makes it clear that, if one party does not wish to deal with an issue, that issue will be left out of the review. If this is not the case, if we have interpreted it wrongly, we would ask you, Commissioner, to make a gesture to calm the worst fears of the fishing industry and to put an end to the feeling that our CFP always benefits some people at the expense of others. It only remains for me to thank Mrs Langenhagen for her work in the Committee on Fisheries. ) Mr President, I believe we totally agree with Mrs Attwooll’s statement at the beginning of her excellent report that these two Commission proposals, intended to shed more light on the scientific and socio-economic situation of the fisheries sector, come at a critical time. The proposed exhaustive collection of data and the appropriate management of this data will be very valuable in helping to tackle the revision of the common fisheries policy in a more rigorous manner. This will only be true, of course, if the data can actually be obtained because, as rightly pointed out by our rapporteur, the Commission’s proposal does not establish any element of compulsion on the Member States. The sending of data is completely voluntary and failure to do so will only mean that certain financial assistance, which is not very significant anyway, will not be received. In view of our experience of the submission of data in the fisheries sector, as evidenced by the reports on compliance with the MAGPs, I believe that instead of obtaining a full picture of the situation in the sector, we will end up with total confusion. For example, some Member States will provide scientific data but not employment data while others will provide data on employment but none on the situation of resources, according to whether they can or want to obtain and send this data. I am very much afraid that some will prefer to receive no financing rather than reveal their poor management. This has already been seen in cases where the sending of this data was compulsory, as with the MAGPs. In view of this problem, which seems to me to be the most serious, the Fisheries Committee report improves the proposal in certain important points, particularly with the rapporteur’s suggestion of more reasonable submission deadlines and the request for monitoring by the Commission. My Group has included two reasonable requests. The first is that data originating from studies and samples should be used as a source of data whose collection could otherwise be interminable. The second is that the requirement for data referring strictly to the taxation of enterprises should be removed from the Commission’s proposal, bearing in mind that this tax data does not come within the Community competence. As a result, this report is very satisfactory and, on behalf of my Group, I therefore ask for its approval. – ) Mr President, the current Protocol to the agreement with Angola, which lasts one year, is in reality an extension of the previous one, in the hope that conditions may improve so that the Agreement may be renewed within the traditional period of three years. We are in total agreement with this solution. On the one hand, it allows fishing to continue, within the framework of an agreement whose formulation has been generally satisfactory to both parties and which has presented no apparent problems. On the other hand, this Protocol provides a natural step towards the signing of the new agreement, which could be under threat given the political situation in the country and the possible presence of other fleets in the event that the European Union were absent from the area. Another piece of good news is the increase in fishing opportunities for the tuna fleet, whose number of ships has almost doubled, which indicates the more than healthy state of the fish resources in those waters. On the other hand, the maintenance of fishing relations with Angola is, at the moment, of great importance and the least the European Union can do is to help a country which is traditionally closely connected to certain Community areas and which is enduring worrying political and economic times. There is no doubt that financial compensation is an important form of support but, nevertheless, the presence of the European fleet contributes to a greater sense of stability in the area, which can only be beneficial to international relations with Angola. Furthermore, the presence of the Community brings a more responsible form of fishing to the area and may be an important factor in terms of balance given the presence of other fleets, particularly the Russian fleet, not to mention the aid to scientific research programmes which is included in this Protocol. For all these reasons, and in the hope that, as Mr Cunha’s report requests, the Commission will inform this Parliament of the result of the application of this Protocol, our group, Mr President, calls for the approval of the Cunha report. –  Mr President, I should like to express my gratitude for the fact that my suggestions were taken into account when this report was drawn up and, in particular, the recommendation that the size of deepwater rose shrimps be set at 22 millimetres rather than at the 24 millimetres proposed by the Commission. Although I think that the Commission’s proposal is not unreasonable, we have to bear in mind that the size limit is being set for the first time and that this species is an important part of the catches of certain fleets in southern Spain and Portugal where, until now, they have been fishing for shrimps without any size restrictions. In a species that does not grow very large, 2 millimetres is a great deal when trying to determine whether the profitability of some very small-scale fisheries will be increased or decreased. As I said, such fisheries are not used to fishing with minimum size restrictions.  What is more, Portugal, the other Member State involved, wanted this minimum size to be even smaller. As a result, I feel that the compromise reached is acceptable and to be commended. I should like to thank the Commission for being so prepared to listen and to accept both suggestions from this House as well as from the Council, which were along the same lines.  I am also especially interested in the Commission’s proposal on the temporary halt on sand eel fishing in Scottish and English waters. I must also welcome the fact that Denmark, the country most dependent on fisheries, has not raised any major objections to this measure. Their attitude should enable us to progress towards a more realistic management system of fishery resources used for industrial purposes. I have often expressed my doubts about the idea that we should maintain large fleets in depleted ecosystems, such as those of the Community, which means that fish stocks are being destroyed in order to produce fish meal or oil. In the European Parliament Resolution of June 1998 on this type of fishing, which was based on a report drawn up by Mr Kindermann, it was highlighted that 60% of Community yields in the North Sea, Skagerrat and Kattegat are intended for this type of industrial use. Reports from the FAO and environmental organisations estimate that 70% of fisheries production is used to this end and say this is contributing to the destruction of stocks on a worldwide scale. Evidently, these figures also highlight the high socio-economic dependency of some Community regions on such activity. For this reason, while I have no desire whatsoever to eliminate this activity completely, it may be an opportune moment to debate the possibility of achieving a greater balance, taking account of the various fleets’ objectives in the use of resources. Eventually, this new balance should be borne in mind when distributing Community funds for structural measures as well as administrative and market policy measures. – Mr President, once again what most stands out to me about the Commission proposal is the imbalance between the importance that it says it attaches to certain issues and the means that it then puts in place in order to resolve them. If we believed solely in the declarations of intent, it would seem that the Commission really does see the fisheries control policy as a top priority. The Explanatory Memorandum to this proposal commends the importance of this policy as part of the common fisheries policy, which it describes as crucial, a description that with which we all agree. The Green Paper that was recently presented goes even further, saying that either the system must be improved, or a fatal blow will be dealt to the credibility of the CFP. However, when the moment of truth comes, we are once again seeing that, following great declarations, two of the three essential elements are missing, and neither are the sufficient resources provided to carry out the measures, nor is the essential policy of transparency followed in order to make them credible. It is impossible to understand how, when this policy is such a priority, and it is so essential to reinforce it, the budget allocated to it on this occasion is not only not being increased, but is being decreased from EUR 41 to 35 million per year. Also, this being the third decision from the Commission going the same way, this time the Commission has not made the report on the results of previous measures public, so that we do not know, aside from whether the choice of the measures to be funded was more or less correct, whether they achieved practical results, including the highly desirable results of linking the sector to this policy, which until now was described as discriminatory and confused in Community waters and weak and lacking credibility outside them. We therefore support the more than pertinent comments from the rapporteur in this respect, and all of his amendments and, more specifically, those that stress to the Commission that this House believes that, if the Commission has the powers regarding the regional fisheries organisations, it also has the political and financial responsibility for implementing the appropriate measures. This of course includes control measures, in which the European Union is putting the credibility of its supposed commitment to sustainability of resources on the line in the eyes of the world. – Mr President, it seems that the Commission is happy to ignore the requests of the Council and this Parliament – the former clearly expressed at the Council of Ministers of October 1997 – and delay the work on the guidelines for the negotiation of the fisheries agreements. The protocol with Guinea-Conakry is a good example. We expected the payment quota for shipowners to be increased, but it is intolerable that, in the Council working groups, the Commission is prepared to describe that increase as light, given that it means an ever-greater sacrifice for the fleet and that – I repeat – in the agreements with the northern countries, shipowners do not pay a penny. Furthermore, the Commission has been prepared to ignore the principle of relative stability by casually removing from the Community fleet fishing rights that have been acquired in accordance with that principle. The principle of relative stability is either sacred or it is not, and it cannot be untouchable in Community waters when the complete opposite is the case in the fisheries agreements with the southern countries. The Commission says that it has taken away Spain’s allowances for fishing cephalopods because it did not fully utilise them during the last protocol, and it grants them to countries which had never fished there. That is all very well. I have always argued for the total exploitation of the fishing rights granted, but in all waters, not just in relation to the agreements with the southern countries. In the agreements with the northern countries they are completely under-exploited and there is no way that the fleets with the greatest interest in fishing there can do so. Why do these differences exist? Could you please explain this once and for all. Furthermore, what makes the Commission think that, because it did not utilise the fishing allowances during the previous protocol, it will not do so during this one, given that its cephalopod-fishing fleet which was fishing in Morocco has been out of action for nine months and there is no solution in sight? Mr President, all of this illustrates the mental and physical chaos of our Community fishing authorities, and it will only be resolved when the guidelines which I referred to earlier are established in a clear and agreed way. – I have asked a question because I previously consulted a series of decisions taken by the Council of Ministers in 1997 on certain guidelines for fisheries agreements and, as far as I can see, they have not yet been complied with in the European Union. I do not wish to have an argument with the Commissioner, but I simply wish to know whether, following the guidelines laid down at the time, on the next renewal of the fisheries agreement with Greenland – where we all know that fishing quotas are not used or are under-used – the fleets which do not have access at the moment to this agreement, will be offered the possibility of using those quotas which are not used or which are under-used. – Mr President, with regard to fishing, I am not going to go into the details of the Commission’s legislative proposals. However, I would like to hear a clear commitment from the Commission that it will seek a solution for the speedy transposition into Community law of the recommendations of the regional and international fishing organisations. Mr President, in the last plenary part-session, regarding the Gallagher report on the recommendations of the ICCAT on bluefin tuna in the Mediterranean, we had the opportunity to debate this issue of Commission delays, which are becoming a very serious problem. Although these recommendations will become binding on a particular date, their absence in Community legislation means that the fleet is not complying with the measures and may lead to the initiation of infringement proceedings against the European Union. Delays in transposition are an endemic problem in the Commission. For example, we have been waiting since 1996 for the incorporation into Community legislation of the ban on landings from Honduras and Belize, or, for example, since 1998 for the control of the fishing capacity for albacore tuna in Community waters. The Commission is always accusing Member States of not transposing its decisions and directives into their national legislation, while it is doing exactly the same thing on an international level. It is clear that the proposal presented by the Commission on the communication on the reform of international organisations, with a view to speeding up the process, tries to separate the legislative processes both of Parliament and of the Council. From the point of view of this institution, there are serious doubts as to whether this is the best way to resolve this problem. I hope that President Prodi will now commit himself to resolving this problem once and for all, and that, in any event, Parliament will always be connected with the legislative procedure for incorporating the recommendations of international fishing organisations into Community legislation. – Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Gallagher for the speed with which he has worked on his report in order to allow the approval of these two extensions which, as he has pointed out, allow the continuation of fishing activity until the signing of a new protocol with Senegal. We must also recognise the sensitivity shown by the rapporteur in not presenting amendments so as not to interfere with the result of the negotiations currently under way, although he indicates that the results of those negotiations will have to be analysed in line with the considerations expressed in his report. I almost entirely agree with the considerations, but I would like to expand on the rapporteur’s reference to the lack of utilisation of the agreement by pelagic trawlers. The rapporteur refers to the fact that, in the Northern agreements, criticism has been made of the existence of ‘paper fish’ or ‘paper quotas’ and that also, in this case, payments should only be made in exchange for real fish. I would like to point out that these situations are in no way comparable. In this case, fishing opportunities really exist and, being a Southern agreement, any interested Member State could chose to make use of them, just as in other categories of this same agreement entry has been granted to fleets that are not traditionally present in the area, such as those from Italy or Greece. If these opportunities are not taken advantage of, it will be because certain States have not been interested, but I doubt that with the non-existence or non-continuation of the agreement with Morocco, these opportunities will not be utilised in the future. In the Northern agreements, however, no Member State can fish. It is prohibited, even if a State is interested; and you all know that certain fleets are interested in being able to fish within these quotas which are already paid for. And we must also remember that, in this particular case, we are not talking about ‘paper fish’ because, as I have already stated, the fish really exist, unlike the cases of certain Northern agreements, where the state of resources is so poor that real fishing opportunities are not available, and which, by the way, are much more expensive than the agreement with Senegal. Mr President, I too would like to focus on the progress Romania has made in terms of compliance with the Copenhagen criteria. I would like to highlight two issues. Firstly, I believe we should acknowledge that Romania is taking steps and making efforts to comply fully with these criteria. I regret that Commissioner Verheugen did not acknowledge this. As we all know, this does not mean that there are no more obstacles to overcome, but it is encouraging that those obstacles have been identified and that the Romanian authorities have taken measures to remove them. The fight against corruption, as the Commissioner mentioned, to guarantee the independence of the justice system – and fundamental legislative reforms, contained in the new Constitution, are underway in this regard – press freedom, the reform of public administration, etc. In this regard, I would like to say that some of the recommendations contained in the report by Mrs Nicholson, such as the publication of the report by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture, have been accepted favourably by the Romanian authorities and, therefore, I believe that paragraphs 17 and 18 have become obsolete. And, of course, of the remaining obstacles I must mention the protection of children in international adoptions. Secondly and finally, I would like to say that, while the adoption of concrete measures within the specific time limits is important, it is also important that all of these measures move unequivocally in the direction of full compliance with these criteria. This has been the approach taken by the ten States joining us on 1 May and the same approach must be taken in this case as well. – Madam President, since the creation of the State of Israel, we have surely never been so close to a lasting and stable peace agreement in the Middle East. The differences between the parties, however, have probably never been so profound. The withdrawal of the Israeli troops from southern Lebanon, the will demonstrated by the new Syrian President and the clear progress made at Camp David – as has been mentioned here this morning – seem to offer us a panorama in which peace is actually within reach. However, there are still potential pitfalls, which remind us that, we are as close to taking advantage of this historic opportunity as we are to the black storm clouds that will descend upon the region should the negotiations fail. What we can we in the European Union do? Of course we offer our services by means of the European Union’s special envoy, Ambassador Moratinos, whom I welcome. We undoubtedly offer a guarantee in terms of the future economic development of the region, which would no doubt result from the peace agreement, through our cooperation and investment, as Commissioner Patten has correctly reminded us. We encourage the opposing parties to persist courageously with the negotiations, ignoring the most pessimistic, sometimes threatening, voices, which sometimes emerge from their respective countries. We are grateful for the summary of the facts, the information communicated to us this morning by the Council and the Commission, and their good will. However, we should ask ourselves whether this is worthy of the responsibility and aspirations of the European Union on an international level. To speak with one voice, to aspire to a leading role not only economically but also, surely, politically, demands more of us. No group is offering greater support than the European People’s Party to the governments promoting the peace process, especially to the United States. No group is forcing itself to act with greater prudence than we are at this critical moment. From this point of view we propose that next year, when we celebrate the tenth anniversary of the Conference which gave rise to this peace process, the European Union should once again bring together, in a repeat of the Madrid meeting, the leaders who participated in that Conference. Meanwhile, we should reaffirm the European Union’s full commitment to the peace process and our willingness to honour our historic, economic and also political responsibilities in the region. The President has not responded to the request of the chairman of my group to have the verbatim Minutes of yesterday's sitting revised. As he himself has just admitted, Mr Barón Crespo spoke to a fellow Member yesterday, saying, ' [be quiet, wretch]'. Mr President, this is not only an arrogant expression, it also shows contempt for an opponent which is incompatible with the democratic spirit. – Mr President, this morning the MEPs from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, when we looked in the postboxes here next to the Chamber, discovered a poster with our name and the word ‘murderer’. I believe that until now, Mr President, only our colleagues in the Basque Country have been accustomed to this, to seeing their names on the targets painted in the street, and for some of them, Mr President, we have observed a minute’s silence here in this House. I do not believe this is compatible with the spirit in which the European Union was founded, which is also incompatible −and I say this respectfully – with certain posters which we saw yesterday here in the plenum. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to appeal for tolerance, which is the foundation of European integration. – Mr President, I am not going to use this speech to give praise. Although if I wanted to, it would be difficult for me to better the adjectives that have been used in the last six months by, for example, the Secretary-General of the Council, Mr Solana, the British Prime Minister, or the current German Chancellor, who are all of the same political leaning as Mr Barón, although that may not appear to be the case. It is, however, reasonable to say that in the past six months we have made more progress than ever in the field of justice and home affairs. And something that I think is more important, perhaps, than having agreed a common definition of the crime of terrorism, having created Eurojust, or having adopted the arrest warrant, is having understood that terrorism is a problem and a threat for all Europeans and that it therefore requires measures at Community level. Those who murder, or use extortion and threats as a means of achieving their political objectives are undoubtedly a threat to democracy and to the system of freedoms. But the same applies to those who instigate or cooperate with terrorists. Those who contribute funding, for example, which the Batasuna treasurer is accused of, after the French judicial authorities found more than EUR 200 000 in his car boot which he said he was given by a Member of this House. I am therefore very relieved, and I think we all should be, to know that the Bureau of the European Parliament has intervened in this matter. On the subject of attacks on human rights, there are few actions that are more repulsive than the trafficking of human beings. The fight against illegal immigration also requires an effort at European level. Of course my Group wanted to get further, like the majority of the members of the Council, but I think that we should be satisfied with the agreement that was reached, which was a result of the requirement for unanimity and which is undoubtedly a step forward, especially for those who not long ago were demagogically demanding papers for all. I want to end by repeating some words that were said in this plenary in January 1996, during the previous Spanish Presidency of the European Union. The spokesperson for my Group, Abel Matutes, said then that the Presidency does not belong to the Government that is temporarily exerting the power, but is the responsibility of the whole country and all of its people. The , as Mr Matutes said then, has therefore given you its loyal support in order to achieve the objectives set out. We have fulfilled that objective and therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say that we take the good and bad elements of this Presidency as our own. There are people this morning who have missed the opportunity to show the slightest institutional loyalty. They will always have the freedom to continue bringing strictly national discussions to Brussels and Strasbourg. They therefore also have the opportunity first of all to lose the debates in their country of origin and then lose them again here, in Brussels or Strasbourg. . – Mr President, one of the consequences of the terrorist attacks of 11 September has undoubtedly been to draw attention to the Middle East and, even if it were only in our own interests, the European Union should contribute to calming the turbulent waters in that region, creating political and economic cooperation and, in general, stimulating the framework of Euro-Mediterranean relations. In this regard, the work to create a Euro-Mediterranean parliamentary assembly would be a valuable contribution, and I would encourage our Lebanese colleagues to join in with this task together with the European Parliament and the Parliaments of the region. The country with which tomorrow, by means of our vote, the European Parliament will open the doors to privileged cooperation, Lebanon, is unquestionably a key player in the region. Today, after 16 long years of war on its territory, Lebanon can be a travelling companion of the European Union in its enthusiastic attempt to find a solution to the regional conflict. Let us be Mediterranean partners for peace! The association agreements such as the one we are discussing today are an essential element of the European Union’s external action, which go further than mere commercial considerations, since they are intended to establish a framework for political dialogue. It is my hope, and I am sure the whole of Parliament agrees with me, that the exception of Syria will be resolved as soon as possible. With regard to this agreement, I would like to comment on certain issues which have been raised during the debate in committee. Firstly, although we were undoubtedly delighted by the Israeli withdrawal from Southern Lebanon in May 2000, the issue of stable borders with Israel has still not been finally resolved, and we therefore urge the parties to reach an agreement on this. Secondly, since October of that same year, 2000, the Hezbollah group has been holding four Israeli citizens as hostages and, in this specific case, and with regard to the people captive or disappeared in the various countries of the region in general – it is calculated that there are 17 000 Lebanese citizens – we must get involved – I would like to ask the Greek Presidency whether it is going to do anything to mediate on this regrettable issue of the disappeared. In our committee, we have also expressed the need to complete the withdrawal of Syrian troops based in Lebanon, in application of Security Council Resolution 520, in order to guarantee the sovereignty and integrity of that country. We therefore appeal to the Lebanese Government to submit this issue to the consideration of our colleagues in that country’s parliament, so that a debate can be opened to allow progress to be made on this crucial issue. I would like to support and acknowledge the efforts the Lebanese authorities are making in the fight against terrorism, particularly in application of United Nations Resolution 1373. These and other matters will form part of the political dialogue which will be opened up between the European Union and Lebanon, particularly in application of the clause contained in Article 2 of this agreement. And, in the presence of the Council and the Commission, I would like to ask that an in-depth debate be held on the effectiveness of the application of this clause and on the possible mechanisms for its parliamentary monitoring and evaluation. Within this context, the issue of respect for human rights and democratic principles is essential to this Parliament. I am convinced that this is unquestionably a fundamental instrument which will be extremely useful in terms of supporting the enormous efforts the current government of Minister Hariri is making to improve the economic situation of Lebanon. –  Mr President, it has been said here that some progress towards disarmament has been made, although the scale of this progress is hard to measure in relative terms, because the obligation to prove that weapons of mass destruction have been destroyed has not been fulfilled. We must remember that the inspectors are not private investigators – they are not budding Sherlock Holmes – they are simply information gatherers. We accept, however, that they have made progress. They have been able to do so simply because of international pressure, the last resort of which is the use of force. Let us recall that the inspectors did not leave the country in 1998 of their own free will, but were expelled because the regime thought that the danger had passed. We must also remember the victims, the thousands of people who perished in the rubble of the twin towers, the tens of thousands who have been eliminated in Iraq because they dissent or simply because they belong to a different minority, the hundreds of thousands who have had to go into exile in order to survive. I assume we all agree that we must do whatever we can to ensure that international terrorist organisations do not gain access to these weapons of mass destruction. I assume, Commissioner, that there are no doubts about this. I also wish to point out that, for the moment, everyone, except for Saddam Hussein, has acted with the utmost respect for international law. If decisions and votes are being postponed in the United Nations Security Council, it is precisely in order to reach an agreement that will enable us to continue to act within international law, laying down concrete conditions for disarmament and precise dates by which this is to be achieved because, as the European Council stated, inspections cannot go on indefinitely. In this context, unfortunately, the unity of action of the European Union’s Member States remains in disarray and I must ask Mr Papandreou and Commissioner Patten – and I know that this is not an easy task – to continue to seek agreement. And this agreement, Mr President, must be founded on the Member States’ will to achieve consensus, on respect for the opinions of others, on not attempting to impose on others policies based on faits accomplis and on abandoning strident attitudes. Simply saying ‘never again’ will not get us anywhere. – Madam President, I am not going to raise a point of order, under Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure, because, as you said, we leave this until the end of the debate, but I do want to speak under Rule 122 due to personal allusions. Mr Barón Crespo has made a completely unfounded accusation here, and I ask you, Madam President, to ask Mr Barón Crespo to retract it. – Thank you, Mr President, in this Parliament one can always choose when one speaks and this is surely not the best time, but in any event, Mr President, I would ask that we return to the debate, since the important thing is Valencia and the situation in the Middle East.   Thank you, Mr President, I should begin by thanking the Presidency for its support, which ensured that Parliament was represented in Valencia by an unusually large delegation in which there was room for representatives of Parliament’s five largest groups. I believe that the presence of Parliament’s delegation was justified insofar as it was able to witness  the efforts made by the Spanish Presidency to hold and manage, often against the odds but always with skill, a meeting which was very complicated given the very tense situation in the region in question. I also believe I can safely say that the presence of Parliament has been useful, that it will have contributed in some way to the success, within the Valencia action plan, of certain proposals which stem from resolutions and parliamentary debates in this House. Within the political context, the commitment to respect human rights and to cooperate in the fight against terrorism seem to me to be a very important advance, and these are issues which for the first time are clearly laid out in the conclusions of a meeting of this nature. Equally important are the decisions which imply an insistence on progress with liberalisation in the Mediterranean region and we hope that the Association Agreement with Lebanon will be signed during the current Presidency. In fact, Mr President, I believe that we should explicitly welcome the presence of the delegation from Libya, a country which clearly plays an important role in the region and throughout the whole continent. This process of opening up markets must be accompanied by clear Community support through an increase in investments in the region, as Commissioner Patten pointed out, contributing in particular to the development of infrastructures. Furthermore, we should welcome the statement that there is a need to hold an open and in-depth debate on the organisation of migratory flows and their management on both sides of the Mediterranean. We in the European Parliament must continue to insist on the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean Development Bank and meanwhile, we must monitor and demand the support of the institutions involved – and in this regard I am sure we can count on the cooperation of the European Commission – in order to comply with the commitment to double the funds of the EIB in the region until 2006. The support of the Conference for the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly seems to me very significant and I am sure that we will be able to dedicate our work in the next parliamentary forum in Bari in June to debating its launch, which must be a crucial element in the institutionalisation of the Barcelona Process. And in this same respect, we must applaud the creation of a foundation which promotes dialogue between cultures and civilisations, which my group has repeatedly called for. In summary, and in spite of the circumstances, I insist that in Valencia we have been able to confirm that the revitalisation of the Barcelona Process, six years after its launch, represents a strategic option for the future for the European Union and for each of its Member States and all of its democratic expressions, because I believe that the attempts at party politics, such as that made by the President of the Socialist Group, have no place here. It goes without saying that at the moment, the achievement of a stable and secure Mediterranean area is threatened by the situation in the Middle East. Without saying any more, I would like, Mr President, to end with a double appeal to this House. Firstly that, despite all the tragedy, we continue with our efforts towards peace, and secondly, increase the internal dialogue in this House in order to ensure that the positions of the European Parliament are the result of a broad consensus, because that is the only way, through unity, that Parliament’s voice can be heard and that it can contribute to the peace process we all want to see. Mr President, if we can conclude this debate with a vote that confirms the broad consensus that we have reached to date on this matter, I wish to call on the parliamentary groups not to change the report. We will be renewing our commitment to the fight against terrorism and we will be ending a process which, as Mr de Miguel has reminded us, began in the European Parliament. By doing so, we would be turning one of the most illustrious pages in the history of this House. We now hope to see a rapid transposition of these measures so that they are effective, so that decisions are taken that are able to freeze the assets of European terrorist groups and so that efforts are coordinated in the fight against terrorism, not only between Member States, as has happened most notably between Spain and France in recent times, but also between the competent bodies that have been established within the European Union. Mr President, I am convinced that with this process, we will not only be responding to a demand expressed very firmly by Europe’s citizens, but we will also be making an invaluable contribution to the cause of freedom. There is no greater risk to the freedom of thought, of expression and to the right to life itself, than violence expressed through terrorism. Every democratic State has an obligation to provide justice with instruments such as those we are discussing today, which will make its work more effective. Under the Rule of Law, democratic dialogue must be based on mutual trust and non-violence, with the aim of defending democracy, precisely as we stated in one of the report’s sections on the Union’s role in the fight against terrorism. To do anything else, ladies and gentlemen, would be to accept that the laws approved by democratically-elected parliaments should change to please the murderers and for them to stop killing; this hope, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, should be rejected because it is antidemocratic and immoral. – Mr President, certain people should remember that we are debating today the programme of the Italian Presidency with which – and I am keen to point this out – I am essentially in agreement. I hope that throughout these six months, at all times in fact, we will be able to distinguish between domestic ideological differences and the institutional responsibilities such as those which the great country of Italy is now taking on. We take note, in this regard, of the commitment of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. The main task of the Italian Government is to successfully organise the Intergovernmental Conference (IGC) and to employ all its capacity for dialogue in order to bring the positions of the Member States together. In this regard, we are grateful for the commitment of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council. The objective is for the IGC, in any event, to begin and end in Rome. Time periods here, Mr President, are very important so that the countries which decide to hold a referendum on the ratification of the Constitution of Rome, allowing it to coincide with the European elections on 13 June 2004 – and I wish that were all of them – are able to do so. In this regard, Mr President, please allow me to take this opportunity to urge the political opposition in my country to agree to a reform by consensus of the rules governing the referendum so that such a vote may be possible, as we all wish. We would also like during this six-month period for strong impetus to be given to the negotiations for the accession of Romania and Bulgaria and we call on the Presidency to do everything possible so that these negotiations may end within the time period of the current European legislature. In terms of the European Union’s internal policy, we fully support taking further steps on the Lisbon strategy and continuing to make progress on the area of freedom, security and justice, particularly in combating illegal immigration, and in terms of the foreign policy of the Italian Presidency we hope that it relaunches the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue in Naples and we welcome its commitments in this respect on the creation of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, but in particular the relaunching of the idea of the Euro-Mediterranean Bank. And we would also urge you to promote progress in the negotiations with Mercosur which the WTO will promote and which your Italo-Argentinian compatriots will no doubt welcome. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we wish you the best of luck because success during these six months will be a success for Europe. – Mr President, I should like to appeal for calm and tolerance in the House. After all, these are the cornerstones of European integration. The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats attempted to table a resolution on the basis of the Council’s declaration. Unfortunately at this stage consensus appears impossible. Some of the approaches put forward seem to aim in practice at calling for the European Union to become part of the movement of non-aligned countries. My group argues on the contrary for strengthening the transatlantic axis as a strategic priority for the European Union. We agree with the Council on this. It is therefore somewhat surprising to hear the Commission praise an initiative for common defence beyond the territory of the Union. It might be termed an extra-Community venture. No eyebrows should be raised if others now table further proposals. The Council devoted a good deal of time to discussion of the eagerly awaited post-war period. It sent out an unequivocal call for European Union involvement in rebuilding Iraq. I congratulate it on that. I would however point out that at present what is required of us is humanitarian aid for those most in need. I would have welcomed more specific details of action taken by the Commission in that regard. I trust this objective will unite us all, and that we will be prepared to regroup under the European flag as we strive towards it. A further issue that brooks no delay is ending the conflict in the Middle East. I would have welcomed the Commission’s comments on this too. Mr President, nobody in his or her right mind welcomes this war or any other. We cannot however fail to deal with international terrorism or threats to our security. We cannot either fail to deal with the state of complete bondage the people of Iraq have had to endure up to the present. –  Madam President, no group is more sensitive than mine when it comes to sharing the quite natural concerns felt by the inhabitants of the Campo de Gibraltar area; therefore, as the Chairman of my group has already indicated, I should like to offer the Group of the Party of European Socialists a consensus so that we can have a serious and thorough debate on this matter by means of an oral question to the Council and the Commission. If this was not the intention of those who proposed this resolution, if through lack of experience – not through lack of scruples, I am sure – what was intended was to bring an internal, domestic affair before this Parliament – as the spokesman for the Spanish Socialists in the Spanish national parliament recognised at the weekend – then of course they cannot count on the Group of the European People’s Party to play this game. . – Mr President, despite the changes, or perhaps because of them, we in the Community institutions must reaffirm our political commitment to strengthening integration. The European Parliament has often reiterated the need for the European Union to play a solid role on the international stage and to be able to speak consistently in that context. To this end, the Maastricht reform drew up the CFSP and for the same purpose various proposals are currently being considered with a view to 2004. Nevertheless, for the European Union to consolidate its external role, it is necessary, firstly, to organise and strengthen the external policy instruments which the Union already has and, in particular, its external service. We must accept that the external service, which currently has such important functions, suffers from numerous shortcomings which have not been surmounted, despite the reforms promoted by the European Commission itself, and, therefore, this Parliament last September approved the own-initiative report ‘Common European Diplomacy’, with a view to greater efficiency in the exercise of the Union’s external policy. At that time we proposed moving ahead decisively on three fronts: firstly, improving the training of Community officials destined to be involved in external activity through the creation, eventually, of a Community diplomatic school and the linking of national diplomatic corps through a system of ‘walkways’ which would be created for that purpose. Secondly, we proposed the clarification and development of the legal status of delegations, their role and their relationship with the institutions; and, lastly, we proposed the improvement of the coordination between the delegations and the external services of the Member States, for which we suggested, amongst other things, promoting the grouping together of the missions of Member States who so desire with the Commission’s delegation whenever, wherever and however possible. At that time, Commissioner Patten told this House that he would consider those recommendations very carefully and would prepare a communication on the external services during the first half of 2001, which we are eagerly awaiting. However, while waiting for more ambitious initiatives, Parliament must now give its opinion on the latest communication from the Commission on the development of the external service, which clearly has a much more limited objective, since it basically focuses on the network of delegations and their staff. It is a welcome communication nevertheless, since it allows us to open a debate on that important issue. In this communication the Commission confirms its will to make progress on decentralisation and on the deconcentration of external aid. This can only be seen as positive even though it requires greater human resources and therefore an increase in costs, which, I believe, we must contribute to. We indicate, however, that not all the difficulties in the operation of the delegations and the management of external aid are caused by the lack of resources. The Commission must also adopt additional measures, such as contracting policies, training plans and a review of procedures. With regard to the network of delegations, the Commission’s proposal to move ahead with regionalisation seems appropriate, although we must consider opening up new delegations in certain countries of South-East Asia, the Gulf region and Latin America, as well as Switzerland. In this context, we must express our concern at the recent rumour that the Commission is considering the possibility of closing its delegation in Costa Rica. I therefore take a positive view of this communication from the Commission. I believe that it takes us in the right direction, but it clearly does not fully deal with the issue. We hope that in the coming weeks the Commission will approve a new communication, a more ambitious one, which takes account of the opinions of Parliament and finally allows us to rationalise, organise and improve the external service, so that it may become an effective instrument for a solid European Union external policy. – Mr President, I do not want to get involved in controversy, but I feel that I really must mention the fact that, on a day when we have kept a minute’s silence to mark another murder by ETA, there is somebody in this House who wishes to defend dialogue with the very people who murdered Mr Lluch. I think it is disgraceful – as Mrs Díez has said – that the memory of Ernest Lluch should be used in this way. I think that this House now knows perfectly well what it can expect from Mr Gorostiaga, from the group he represents and from his terrorist friends. However, I would like to ask Mr Gorostiaga whether he still has a sufficient trace of personal dignity, of dignity as a man, for us to ask him to respect human life. . – Mr President, I believe that we all agree that in 2000, obviously, the Community already enjoys numerous and fundamental competencies in the external field. The Maastricht reform reflects the aspiration, so often expressed in this House, that Europe should speak with one voice in the international arena. With the CFSP, the Union’s external activity takes on a new dimension, definitively going beyond the economic field in order to participate actively in external policy. However, the European Union repeatedly has cause to regret – we have been seeing this recently – that it cannot meet the requirements of external action. Having said this, I wish to begin by saying that the objective of this report is not to seek a further increase in the competencies of the Union in the external field. Those who wish to do that have other debates, in the field of institutional reform, in which to find expression for their aspirations. All that we are proposing is to implement measures which will rationalise and improve the way in which the enormous external action of the Community institutions is carried out. We propose basically to make decisive progress in three areas. Firstly, by improving the training of Community officials intended to be involved in carrying out external actions. The numerous officials in the Commission who deal with external relations, taking on competencies of prime importance, are technical specialists but in general they lack the prior diplomatic training, which is necessary to fulfil their duties. We therefore believe we need to create a Community diplomatic college, which will provide Community officials intended for external action with a good diplomatic and international training. To the same end, we believe it is necessary to provide an opportunity to link the national diplomatic corps, whose experience and long tradition are of great value, to our external action, and we therefore propose to implement a ‘bridging’ system between national external services and the Community external service. Secondly, we wish to clarify and develop the legal status of the Commission’s current external delegations, their role and their relationship with the various Community institutions. The Commission delegations have seen a dramatic quantitative and qualitative expansion over recent years. Nevertheless, they do not function in the same way and their relationship with other institutions is unclear, since it is not regulated. We therefore propose that the Commission delegations become Community delegations so that their relations with the Council may be closer, through the High Representative of the CFSP, as well as their relations with the European Parliament and its members, thereby guaranteeing greater efficiency and political control of their activities. Thirdly and lastly, we intend to improve the coordination between the delegations and the external services of the Member States. We need to promote this type of coordination, in order to prevent confusion and inconsistency, not to mention other deficiencies, which were plain to see at the informal General Affairs Council in Evian last weekend. To this end we propose various mechanisms and, amongst other things, we envisage the possibility of joining together the missions of those Member States that agree to do so with the current Commission delegations, at the appropriate time. Furthermore, this would represent a considerable reduction in costs. Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President, none of the proposals that have been put forward represent institutional reforms, and even less the ceding of Member States’ sovereignty. We are simply proposing a more effective use of the competencies which have already been granted. We are not setting out to propose conflicting models of Europeanism, but simply to be more efficient. Therefore, the rapporteur cannot support those amendments which would represent profound structural changes to the institutional architecture of the Union. In particular, I would like to express my gratitude for the other contributions which, in committee and with tomorrow’s vote in Parliament, greatly enrich the initial proposal. I would ask the various groups to vote in favour of this report and the European Commission to reflect the feelings of this House. – Mr President, the judge of the National High Court issued a cautionary order which explains that the companies  and , as well as the newspaper which the latter edits, fall within the framework of ETA and, following this cautionary closure, that same judge interviewed the directors of the company and committed five of the ten people arrested to unconditional prison, accused of belonging to a terrorist organisation. Mr President, this should not come as a surprise to anybody because in 1992 the former Interior Minister for the Basque Government, and now President of the Basque Parliament, said that  was part of ETA and in 1993 the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party stated publicly that ETA participated in the appointment of the management of the newspaper. We are not talking about an issue of language, but of the manipulation some people wish to carry out in order to achieve radical votes on 25 May and that, Mr President, is simply repugnant. – Mr President, this would be nothing more than a parliamentary incident were it not for the simple fact that, in the Basque Country and in Spain, when Batasuna threatens, ETA kills. And this is a perfect illustration of the situation we are living in in our country. – Mr President, the acceptance by the different parties of the Roadmap has followed a tremendous wave of violence in the region and unfortunately this is a relatively normal and well-known pattern. At times of hope there are always people whose extremism and radicalism lead them to commit acts aimed at undermining peace efforts. However, the international community is now closely involved: the United Nations, the European Union – we must not underestimate the role of the European Union – the United States and Russia. There is one fact which I believe to be irrefutable and that is that, since the beginning of the second Intifada, there have been more than 2 700 victims on the Palestinian side and almost 800 on the Israeli side. In other words, everybody loses here: the Israelis lose their security and the Palestinians lose the possibility of economic and political development, in other words the possibility of well-being for its people. The European Union is placing particular emphasis on increasing its diplomatic efforts, in order to ensure that – as Mr Solana has said – peace is based on the idea of two states, Israel and Palestine, living together in peace and security. I believe it appropriate to state here, when we are on the point of voting on an important resolution on transatlantic relations, that we should be pleased to note that the United States are prepared, together with us, to make an effort to move the Roadmap forward; and I believe that the comments of the President of that country, following the latest acts of violence and terrorism in the region, are a guarantee of this. It is time to move forward and to consolidate the achievements made, and to continue working on the basis of the application of the Roadmap. It is urgent that the verification mechanism be established and made operational as soon as possible. I believe that not only the United States but also the European Union and the United Nations have sufficient resources on the ground to begin this essential task and I believe that we Europeans must work with total pragmatism and realism in this area. We must therefore celebrate the fact that the peace process now includes the very active participation of the international community, which is now accepted by everyone to be indispensable. I believe that we Europeans are furthermore faced with two inescapable tasks: on the one hand, to give our full support to the Prime Minister, Abu Mazen, helping him to achieve the necessary trust of his people, of Israel and of the international community. And therefore, Mr President, I believe it is very important for Parliament's Bureau to invite him here so that he can give us his impressions and share his views with this House. The results of the meeting he held the day before yesterday with 13 organisations demonstrate the urgency of this task. We must help him to convince the Palestinian population that the government he leads, under the presidency – we must not forget – of President Arafat, is in an historic position. By the way, I would like to express my disapproval of the isolation which President Arafat is being subjected to, an isolation which I believe is of no use to anybody. The second job I believe falls to us, and this was noted by this Parliament’s delegation for relations with Israel, is the need to make an effort to restore the confidence of an Israeli society which lives in constant fear of terrorist attack. On the issue of terrorism I believe this Parliament has been clear and firm, and we must continue to be so. No type of terrorist act is justified; we cannot distinguish either between terrorists or between their victims. I must not end, Mr President, without greeting and welcoming our colleagues from the Iranian Parliament and expressing my agreement with the words of the High Representative in relation to that country and, in particular, his request to the Iranian authorities. Iran is indeed a great country with which this Parliament – as we all hope and wish – must strengthen its friendly relations. –  Mr President, I am convinced that the vast majority of Basque people, given the opportunity, would thank the French Presidency of the Council and the European Parliament for echoing their deep desire for peace and democratic coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first democratic elections took place in Spain in 1977, the Basque Country has emerged as the European region with the highest degree of self-government. Since then, the Basque people have had the opportunity, on six occasions, to elect the representatives for their autonomous parliament and violent and radical nationalism has never won the democratic support of the Basque people at the polls. However, since our Constitution was approved, enshrining the democratic rights of the people of Spain, ETA has killed 804 people in my country and left over 2000 widows and orphans all over Spain, mainly in the Basque Country. Their victims were men and women from all walks of life, including, of course, those who dedicated part of their lives to fighting the dictatorship. As part of the struggle to banish fear, these days in the Basque Country and in the rest of Spain there is a popular, civic and peaceful backlash against the tyranny of murderous terrorism. In my view, ladies and gentlemen, this debate must take up and broaden this popular call and encourage the people of Europe to work together to create a great pact for freedom. We must be able to make the people of our countries of origin realise that the fundamental principles on which our common coexistence rests are threatened whenever anyone, in any part of Europe, is killed because of their beliefs. Only the united stand taken by democrats can ensure that the perpetrators of violence are marginalised as well as those who, owing to the permissiveness generated in our democracies, protect, induce, justify or tolerate terrorist acts of any kind. I hope my message is clear. We all doubtless agree that dialogue is a decisive factor in the democratic process. There is only one exception to this golden rule and that exception is also an essential component of democratic systems. In a democracy, ladies and gentlemen, the voice of those who are intent on destroying it and who use criminal methods to achieve their ends must be silenced by the law, by the Rule of Law. Democracy must never bow to those who at the same time, and this is something I stress, at the same time, insist on holding it to ransom, gun in hand. I am convinced of the personal and political commitment of Commissioner Vitorino and the College of Commissioners to this undertaking, something that they have demonstrated on several occasions. I should therefore like to ask the Commissioner to use his exclusive powers of legislative initiative to propose new measures to enable us to make progress as regards European cooperation which, as you yourself pointed out, is still insufficient. One of the most effective measures in the fight against terrorism is in fact the European arrest warrant, which would mean that terrorists served their sentences in the country where they committed their most heinous crime. I would like to end, Mr President, by sparing a thought for those Europeans most affected by fear, in other words, the victims of terrorism and their families. Today, thanks to this debate, they are a little less alone. –  Mr President, many of us feel that the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum represents a milestone in the Middle East peace process that we all want to see. The simple truth is that it is not possible to find absolute truths in a dispute whose origins are interwoven with the very roots of our civilisation. This is exactly why the determination that Israelis and Palestinians are now showing in the way they are developing and applying their agreements is opening up an amazing opportunity for hope. Further proof of this feeling is the way the recent stumbling blocks relating to the introduction of the 45-kilometre corridor which will unite Gaza with the West Bank, have been overcome in the last few hours. But, as Mr Patten put it so well, we must not underestimate the difficulties lurking on the horizon, which will certainly trip us up in critical situations – hopefully these will only be fleeting – during which we should all bear two things particularly in mind: firstly, that the way forward must always be dialogue between all those involved, which is genuine, open and direct. Secondly: that it must be seen that both Israelis and Palestinians have a common enemy – terrorism – in all its forms, whose only aim is to destroy peace, freedom and respect for human rights. Particularly given our own current historical context, there is no possible justification for the use of violence, wherever it may come from. We do not have to resort to the figures on commercial exchange, investment and cooperation in development to see how important a role the European Union plays in the region, but the European Union’s proven economic solidarity must be valued as highly as its ability to contribute efficiently to a peaceful solution to the conflict. I share Minister Sasi’s recognition of the efficient work done by the European Union’s special envoy, Ambassador Moratinos. Nevertheless, the fact that we have mentioned it so many times does not mean we can stop discussing the lack of vision of our contribution, as Europeans, to the peace process. This is another area for which the European Parliament must accept responsibility in line with its stated desire to contribute to developing a common foreign policy for the European Union. Given this context, I think that this House should have two immediate objectives: to set in action the parliamentary structures of the Euro-Mediterranean Forum, bearing in mind that this could be a very useful instrument for securing peace. It should also put into practise the initiative of Parliament’s President, Mrs Fontaine, who is to make a tour of the region. – Mr President, I hope that you will not start shortening my speaking time. I believe that the debate we are holding today clearly demonstrates that we are at a decisive point in terms of European integration. And I therefore believe that the ambitiousness of the Spanish Presidency’s objectives – any one of them could be described as historic – quite rightly reflects this fact. The truth is that the decisiveness, or even enthusiasm, with which 300 million European citizens have taken on board the euro, suggests that we can look to the future with optimism. The European Parliament, as an expression of popular will, must now demonstrate its ability to play its role of providing the debate with impetus, a role which has particularly been recognised over the last six months of the Belgian Presidency and as the Spanish Prime Minister has stressed this morning. We have provided the Commission and the Council with inspiration, for example, in order to provide the justice systems of the Member States with Community instruments which make the defence of freedoms in the face of terrorism more effective. Since the beginning of this legislature, it has been made clear in this House, more than in any other place, that terrorism is a problem and a threat to everybody, and not only to the direct victims. Therefore, the fact that the Presidency-in-Office of the Council has said that it is necessary to improve the codecision procedure in the next reform of the Union Treaty is an acknowledgement that we should be grateful for. We are going to deal with this reform by means of the method which was used to draw up the Charter of Fundamental Rights – which my Group hopes will be incorporated into the new Treaty - that is to say, by means of a Convention which will be inaugurated in March in the headquarters of Parliament, as has been revealed to us this morning. We trust that that positive attitude from the Council will be maintained throughout the work of the Convention, so that we can respond to two needs: firstly, to bring the Community institutions closer to the citizens by making them more democratic, more efficient and more transparent; and secondly, by undertaking a profound reform of an institutional framework designed for the six founding States, adapting it to a reality in which there are 25 or more Member States, which we hope to see in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations for the enlargement of the European Union – some of the most important chapters of which, as has been said, will be dealt with in the coming months – should not in any way become polluted by domestic debates. On the contrary, in the current Member States, government and opposition should leave aside party-political confrontation in the face of this great Union objective. Mr Barón, we must bear in mind that the success of a Presidency is not measured in national terms, or much less party-political terms. This morning you recognised that you need to take a few classes. I fear that you do not only need computing classes. You spoke like a Spanish Socialist. I trust that you will show the same loyalty that the European Popular Party showed to the two previous Presidencies.  Mr President, we must use these six months to make the European Union stronger in the world, participating in international debates by means of the common position. To this end, it is not just necessary to move ahead with the institutional reforms of the CFSP in order to make it more efficient and visible inside and outside our borders, but we must also improve the instruments which the European Union already has, such as the Community external service. There is no doubt that numerous challenges await us over the next six months, which will demand effort and cooperation from all of us: citizens, European institutions, governments and political parties. We fully trust that this Presidency will represent a step towards a larger and more united Europe, which is more open to the world and closer to the citizens. – Madam President, with your permission I am going to read a paragraph from the editorial published in the  [Basque Daily], the financial director of which, Santiago Oleaga, was murdered by ETA. This paragraph says: ‘There is no doubt about the purpose of Santiago’s murderers. They killed him with an indescribable sadism in order to spread unease and fear amongst the professionals who work in the different media which ETA has targeted. The terrorists, however, could not have chosen a more suitable victim to demonstrate the ultimate intention of its action: to silence the messages of those sections of the media in order thereby to silence a whole society to the point that it comes under the control of its abominable tyranny’. Madam President, I believe that the greatest homage we can pay to Santiago Oleaga is to express our firm rejection of those people who wish to impose that abominable tyranny on us and also express our complete disdain for its spokespeople. – Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking both the Council and the Commission for their information and comments and by saying that my group is also moderately optimistic – let us hope furthermore that the data indicated by the High Representative proves to be right – at this very sensitive time just a few days before the elections in Israel, and in the midst of a transfer of government in the United States, which will have to rebuild its policy in the region. However, we must not forget that, up until today, there have been more than 400 deaths as a result of the Intifada, which has taken us back to a situation which we thought we would never see again. My group also sees the increased European presence in the region over recent months as something to be greatly welcomed. As the presidency mentioned, it is true that the participation of Mr Solana in Sharm el-Sheikh and the committee of enquiry, and the presence of the European Union in Taba through its permanent representative, Ambassador Moratinos, have enabled us to make effective contributions to the peace process. We believe that we have to intensify this quest for political presence in the region on the part of the European Union, which we believe is compatible with the fundamental role which the United States Government must continue to play in this whole process. In Taba, both sides acknowledged that they have never been so close to a final agreement, but we must be aware that the apparent euphoria must not make us blind to the real situation. The Israelis and the Palestinians must be aware that they share a common enemy, the extremism to which fundamentalism of one kind or another leads, which is the main danger to the peace process and to stability and prosperity in the region, and which also poses an undeniable threat to the whole of the Mediterranean region. On the other hand, I believe that we must be aware that we are faced with a national conflict, handed down from history, which has impregnated the education systems of some countries and has promoted hate amongst the younger generations, which means that we clearly cannot expect a magic solution and that we must confront the problem with perseverance. I think it is highly appropriate to link the debates on the Middle East peace process to the new impetus which the European Union is endeavouring to give to the Barcelona Process, as we are doing this afternoon and as Commissioner Patten has done, because surely the greatest contribution Europe can make at the moment to the peace process is to keep alive the spirit of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, strengthening its vitality and maintaining its development in the face of political pressures. Both Israelis and Palestinians have come to realise recently that it is crucial to end the violence and re-establish a climate of security in the region, but they have also worked together on the development of creative formulas to solve the problems dividing them: Jerusalem, the definitive mapping of borders, the refugees and the settlements which Mr Solana referred to. The European Union has the particular responsibility of consolidating these foundations despite the internal political changes of recent days. We must support both sides in their journey towards a solution to the conflict, based on the peaceful resolution of differences, on tolerance, on respect for human rights and the consolidation of peace. – Madam President, we once again have cause to regret the fact that, in Europe, there are still people who murder others because they think differently and who burn down the houses of their political opponents. There are people who force many others to emigrate in order to save their lives and the lives of their families. Faced with this, under the rule of law, we democrats can only unite to defend our system of freedom from the tyranny of terror and trust in judicial action. The most difficult thing is to explain to the widows and to the children who have been orphaned why their loved ones have been taken away. To you, Elvira, María José, we can only offer our deepest sympathy. – Mr President, we are glad that the European Council has been called, as my Group has demanded. I imagine that the Greek Presidency will be holding very intense contacts in order to propose a common position, because intentions are not sufficient. But it did not take this crisis to demonstrate that one of the gaps that reform of the Treaties must confront is the lack of instruments to promote the common foreign and security policy. In fact, it is now exactly two years and seven months, Mr Nielson, since the Commission committed itself to adopting an initiative to respond to Parliament’s proposals on common European diplomacy. We are still waiting. Meanwhile, the Member States have taken positions. I believe that the Franco-German axis is very positive in terms of promoting European integration, but with 15 Members, and particularly with 25, nobody, by definition, can assume they speak for the European Union, and neither do I believe – as some do – that the European identity must by definition be in opposition to the United States. At this point the European institutions should take concrete initiatives – and I have not seen any – within the framework of Euro-Mediterranean relations, because the danger does not come from Islam but from the Iraqi regime, and also, despite all the difficulties, initiatives to re-launch the battered Middle East peace process. And since there has been reference to European history, that history shows that complacency, the failure to meet responsibilities in relation to despotic dictators, for whom expansionist ambitions are intrinsic, may be more comfortable in the short term and also more popular – there were no opinion polls in 1938 but now there are – but sooner or later they cost us dearly in terms of freedom and human lives. – Madam President, since Mr Barón Crespo has recently been so obsessed with receiving all sorts of regulations, I would also ask you to send him the regulations on the questions that Members put to the European Commission, and he should not be surprised that the answer was received by the person who asked the question. Once this person has received the answer he can do what he likes with it, and can therefore give it to the media, and what is more, I would say that it is his duty to do so. These, Mr Barón Crespo, are the rules of democracy. But as you like receiving documentation, please, Madam President, send him the regulations governing this event. – Mr President, there is no question that the most developed countries have an inescapable obligation to show solidarity in relation to immigration. It is also an essential instrument in combating poverty and the social imbalances in the world and, furthermore – and this must be stated clearly – it is necessary to the maintenance of growth and prosperity in our countries. However, it is the case that migratory flows towards the European Union have increased dramatically in recent times and our capacity for reception is not unlimited. So much so that it is no exaggeration to say, as the Council has pointed out, that proper management of immigration is Europe’s greatest challenge today. We must ensure that the immigrants we can receive are protected by and subject to the law, that they assume the rights and obligations that implies and that they fully integrate into the society receiving them and share the values on which that society is based with the other citizens. It is proven that illegality leads to marginalisation. We must therefore prioritise the fight against the illegal trafficking in human beings, that is, against organised crime and mafias, in close cooperation with the third countries of origin and transit, and we must demand greater commitments from some of them. I would ask the Commission to produce and present a report to this House on this issue, because the desire to reach readmission agreements is essential in this field. I agree with Commissioner Vitorino that there is a link between foreign policy and immigration policy. Both the Spanish Presidency and the Commission are promoting greater cooperation in police and diplomatic areas, including, of course, the visa policy, which I believe – and Commissioner Patten will surely agree with me – can perfectly well fall within the framework of the work to create a common European diplomatic corps. We must also consider economic aid for specific cases such as the Canary Islands, for example, where there is a shortage of reception centres to deal properly with the flood of refugees and immigrants who find themselves in an illegal situation. Finally, Mr President, I believe it is time to leave behind demagoguery and irresponsible statements. My group believes – and I propose – that the time has come for a great European pact on immigration which excludes this issue from party political confrontation. – Mr President, Commissioner Patten has our understanding. I would like to tell him that communications with Madrid are usually more fluid and, therefore, I hope to see him there soon. The statements we have heard today on the Middle East peace process are very opportune at the moment because of the hurried tour which Minister Gama – whose absence from this debate I also regret – has made of the region, accompanied by other Council representatives. The tone of the news in the media on the recent events in the area could lead us to take a pessimistic view of the situation. I honestly believe that an evaluation of this type would not be in accordance with the reality of that situation. In this sense, I share Commissioner Patten’s positive attitude. Let me explain: it is true that the Israeli Government has delayed the third hand-over of West Bank territory to the Palestinian authorities. It is also true, however, that, since the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh agreements, 39% of the territory of the West Bank has been handed over to the Palestinian National Authority, together with two thirds of the Gaza Strip and, more importantly, this agreement has so far been scrupulously complied with, since, under the terms laid down in Sharm el-Sheikh, the Israeli Government has the right to delay that handover. This is naturally on the condition that the delay does not exceed three weeks, as Prime Minister Barak has promised. On the other hand, the decision to delay the second round of talks, initiated in Shepherdstown by the Syrian Arab Republic, is undoubtedly significant, but I am convinced that the hopes which were raised on 3 January in that town will not be dashed. Mr President, the fact that the different groups in this Parliament are tabling a motion for a resolution, in this ever controversial debate, which is the result of a broad consensus, seems to me to demonstrate the clear political will to decisively support open peace processes. I would therefore like, equally firmly, to express our rejection of the use of violence to resolve differences, which are still no doubt profound, between the parties. In my judgement, this constitutes a guarantee to both sides, both from a political and a financial point of view, of the commitment they can expect from the European Union in terms of its contribution to the cost of the peace which we all long for. It is clear to everyone that this is essential to guaranteeing security in the area and to cooperating in the development which is needed to heal the serious social differences which exist. But this also serves to make a claim, on the part of the European Union, for a degree of political participation in the process which is consistent with its economic contribution – we do not have aspirations to be bankers – and which will be suitably visible to the public. There is absolutely no doubt that the forthcoming trip by the President of the European Parliament to the region will contribute to this. –  Mr President, I should like to begin by pointing out on the positive side that the Stockholm European Council has emphasised the strategy drawn up in Lisbon, and has even added to and strengthened it in certain concrete matters. The importance placed on the Social Agenda is certainly very positive, particularly regarding the social security and health care systems, the setting of employment rates, the willingness to cut public subsidies (although I would have liked us to have gone further), the development of new technologies, or the decision to create a European Food Authority. In contrast, as regards the liberalisation processes, Mr Prodi, serious asymmetries are being created within the European Union, and this urgently requires draft legislation to regulate intra-Community investments, as almost all the Parliamentary Groups reminded Mr Bolkestein yesterday. I shall finish by referring in this context to the intention of creating a single European sky that has been put forward by both the presidency of the Council and that of the Commission, and I should like to say to Mr Prodi that we trust that the Commission will act in this matter with the determination and prudence needed in view of the commitments undertaken, and in any case in accordance with the Community acquis. Part of the Community acquis too, Mr Prodi, is the Gibraltar clause, which does not date back to the eighteenth century but to a 1987 agreement between the governments of the United Kingdom and Spain, within which we must push forward in order to finalise this agreement in Gothenburg.  – As it is time to proceed to the vote, the debate is suspended and will be resumed at 3 p.m. – Madam President, referring to this document that he mentioned, Mr Ortuondo talks to us about centralism. I do not know if he is referring to the centralism of Spain in relation to the Basque Country. I am sure he is not, because, as he knows, the Basque region has the highest degree of self-government of any European region. However, I would like to ask him whether that document also talks about the statements by the leader of his party when he said to ETA: “Do not kill the cooks, kill the powers that be”. By “the powers that be” he is referring to the Popular Party. I am sure, Mr Ortuondo, that in this respect “the powers that be” means the Popular Party, and the Socialist Party, and that the whole of this Parliament embodies that power. The whole of this Parliament is therefore in a position to consider itself a victim of ETA. –  This is indeed a reference to previous comments, because I had the opportunity and also the satisfaction, let it be said in passing, to comment on a response from the European Commission, which was given in full accordance with the Rules, and I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to withdraw the reference to manipulation. There has been talk of first- and second-class citizens. The citizens from Mr Ortuondo Larrea’s region are not second-class citizens, of course, and yet are systematically threatened, forced to leave their homes and sometimes murdered. I would like Mr Ortuondo Larrea also to concern himself with these people who, I repeat, are not second-class citizens. – Mr President, I would like to focus on two results of Laeken which I believe to be essential. The first is the recognition that the consolidation of the third pillar of the European Union, the fight against terrorism in particular, has at last been developed in the way the citizens have been demanding. The terrible attacks have led even the least aware amongst us to realise that terrorism is a problem for all of us, and that it involves all of us, not just the victims directly affected. And that terror is not only caused by those who pull the trigger or press the detonator, but also by their accomplices, and we should therefore be pleased with the Council’s decision to create a single list of all groups, bodies and people who support terrorism. Secondly, the decisions adopted in relation to designing the future of the Union seem to me to be very coherent with the demands of the European Parliament. I am convinced that the flexibility with which the agenda has been set will allow us to strengthen the instruments of the CFSP during the Convention, because the globalised world in which we live demands that Europe should play a new role and we have provided it with the necessary means to do this, such as the Community diplomatic service. Mr President, I do not believe that the machine has worked properly, but I assume that my speaking time is over. – Mr President, I agree with Commissioner Nielson that since the Cuban regime unleashed its repression in March, with the detention of independent journalists and human rights activists, our relations have only deteriorated. The sentences followed trials which did not respect, according to all the analyses, Mr President, the necessary minimum legal safeguards, proving the most pessimistic predictions to be right. What is more, the prison conditions of those sentenced, according to all the news, Mr Nielson, clearly violate human rights. I believe that, at this time, the essential thing, the priority, must be to deploy all the resources available to us to protect those sentenced and their families. I would ask Commissioner Nielson to tell us what he is doing in relation to the Commission’s delegation, recently opened up in Havana. The Cuban authorities must have no doubt that liberation is an essential requirement if they hope to move in the direction of normalising our relations. Furthermore, they must explicitly protect other dissidents who are not under arrest, such as the current holder of the Sakharov Prize, Mr Oswaldo Payá. The authorities’ refusal to allow him to be with us today – announced by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy – seems to me to be very worrying, and I would ask the Presidency of the European Parliament to support the Committee on Foreign Affairs in relation to its intentions. In view of this situation – as Minister Frattini has said – it is clear that it is not possible to change the common position set in 1996 and we must – and I address this directly to the President—in-Office of the Council – prevent any gesture which could be interpreted as an internal difference within the European Union. On the contrary, we must preserve the current unified approach and I am glad that the Italian Presidency is making efforts in this direction. We must also reject the Cuban authorities’ attempts to divide us and therefore measures such as the demonstration of 14 June or the closure of the Spanish Cultural Centre are not so much acts of aggression against a Member State as against the whole of the European Union. Mr President, our only purpose must be to improve the living conditions and areas of freedom of the Cuban citizens. –Mr President, Mr Gorostiaga insists on blaming the Spanish Government for making his party illegal. It would appear that internal documents even go so far as also to hold Members of the European Parliament, including myself, responsible when this was a decision taken unanimously by the Spanish Supreme Court. Those who maintain this either misunderstand the nature of the constitutional State, one of whose basic principles is the separation of powers, are ignorant of it or, at best, simply reject it. I would take the liberty of reading out a paragraph from a document that I shall forward to the Members of this Parliament, that has been signed by a range of European intellectuals and that concludes with words to the effect that, even if there is a frequent temptation to ignore what is happening, European citizens are asked, on 25 May – the date of the Spanish local elections – generally to declare their mood of anger in memory of the victims who have died for freedom in the Basque Country and in honour of those who, this very day, defend it with a courage that, in the not too distant future, will stir Europe. This document has been signed by, amongst others, Nadine Gordimer, Günter Grass, Bernard-Henri Lévy, Paul Preston, Mario Vargas Llosa and our fellow MEP, Mr Vattimo. In short, dangerous right-wing extremists, as Mr Gorostiaga would say. –  Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the European institutions for the solidarity they have shown towards the people and regions affected and I would also like to thank the parliamentary groups that supported us in holding a debate, as Mr Haarder pointed out, on 21 November, and in repeating it today. It is essential for Galicia in particular, but also Asturias, Cantabria, the Basque country, and the French and Portuguese regions affected, to see very clearly that we shall continue to support them, and that by no means should they feel alone. I would now like to put forward a proposal that the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is to table, for the Conference of Presidents to request a report from the European Commission and make the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism responsible for holding a public hearing on maritime transport safety in Europe and the consequences of this kind of accident. Ladies and gentlemen, this is by far the worst ecological disaster that my country has suffered and it is a disaster of European proportions that no country has the means to tackle alone. It is true that the sinking of the  was a nasty but salutary shock which, as we have seen, was insufficient, and the Vice-President of the Commission is right to express her indignation. I therefore believe that today we in Parliament should remember the measures she proposed at the time with the support of the European Parliament, which the Council did not support. That must be the basis for our work, in order to achieve a reasonable level of safety so that this kind of event does not occur again on our seas and along our coastlines. Mr President, this is not a natural disaster. There are guilty parties: not the wind or the sea, but people with names. This ecological, social and human disaster, however, requires us to mobilise all the financial means available to the European Union and also the recently created Solidarity Fund. It is true that we in Parliament are subject to the Rules of Procedure that all the groups approved, but the situation requires that we act generously and flexibly. Although this Fund did not exist when the  sank, I would also like to ask the European Commission, what means were authorised for recovery operations along the French coast? I shall now turn to the Council to ask it to commit to the proposals to increase maritime safety, which have the backing of both the Commission and Parliament, and to fulfil the commitment given in Copenhagen to create a compensation fund for the damages caused by oil spills. I shall end, Mr President, by calling upon the Socialist Group in general, but more particularly my fellow Spanish Members. Two motions of censure have already been discussed against the government of the  in Galicia, and the Galician Parliament has set up a committee of inquiry. Here we formally propose that we all work side by side to help those affected and increase maritime transport safety, but if you do not want to, if you do not have the heart, at least let us work towards this. – Mr President, as we can deduce from the speeches by the rapporteurs, and at this stage it is hardly necessary to repeat it, the Mediterranean region must be one of the European Union’s highest priorities, because the problems of the southern Mediterranean – the political upheavals, the economic stagnation, the population growth – affect us, directly or indirectly, as Europeans. Examples of this are the migration flows in our direction, the deterioration of our environment and the dangers presented to our society by radical fundamentalism. In summary, balance on our southern border is essential to our stability. It is therefore important that we share the view that the Union’s natural desire for enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe must not lead to a deterioration of its policy towards the Mediterranean. Therefore, while in 1995 my group supported and strongly promoted the open process in Barcelona which, at last, after almost 40 years, drew up a global strategy for the Community countries in relation to the Mediterranean countries, it now supports the objective contained in the reports which we are debating today to strengthen the Barcelona Process. In particular, in relation to Mr Naïr’s report, we have tried to improve it in committee by means of various contributions and I would like to thank the rapporteur for being receptive towards them. We have insisted on the importance of strengthening interparliamentary dialogue, which must be consolidated as one of the key elements in boosting the Barcelona Process. We would like to point out that we should promote the liberalisation of the economic systems of our Mediterranean partners and carry out the structural changes necessary to compete in more open markets. We have proposed the creation of a monitoring centre for migration flows, responsible amongst other things for creating mechanisms to combat, in a coordinated fashion, the mafias which profit from illegal immigration. We would like to point out that relations between the European Union and the Mediterranean countries are based on a global strategy, one of the elements of which is undoubtedly fishing, and therefore we trust that the Moroccan Government will adopt an attitude which reflects the current urgency in the negotiations which are taking place. Finally we would like to point out to the Commission that, within the framework of the reforms taking place in its external service, the human resources dedicated to the Mediterranean association need to be reinforced, a specific structure needs to be established in the Commission, and progress needs to be made on the devolution and decentralisation of aid. In summary, my group is in favour of the European Union playing a broader role in the Mediterranean and we hope that human and material resources are provided that are a match for the challenges facing us. – Mr President, the fight against terrorism is clearly the current major concern of the European citizens and it therefore also has to be the main priority of our political action. Mr President, I am talking about terrorism in all its forms, because there is no legal or moral basis for distinguishing between forms of terrorism, just as there is no such thing as a good murder or a bad murder. In this respect, the action plan against terrorism, which the Belgian Presidency and the Commission are promoting vigorously, includes measures which we had argued for before 11 September. In fact we must remember that the proposals in this area presented by the Commission are not the result of improvisation, but they conform to a mandate received at the European Council in Tampere, whose implementation had suffered considerable delay, which was condemned by the European Parliament on several occasions. We are still awaiting the final approval of the Regulation on the freezing of assets, incorporating, it is true, as the European Parliament argued for, a list of European terrorist organisations, taking into account the financial operative support and propaganda framework of the terrorists. I therefore believe that we must welcome the Council’s commitment to approve a package of measures at the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 6 and 7 December. I am sure that the European Parliament will rise to the occasion and approve its consultative opinion before that. Mr President, I will end by saying that none of these instruments being provided to the judicial administration of the Member States imply the least restriction of the civil liberties of European citizens, but quite the opposite: they provide additional means for protecting the freedom which those who use terrorism to try to impose their ideas take away from the individual. – Madam President, this part session marks the beginning of a political year which presents us with tasks which could be described as historic: in the coming months we have to launch a constitutional reform of the Union, we are going to introduce the euro and we are going to face the most important chapters in negotiations which will lead to an unprecedented enlargement of the European Union. For thousands of European citizens, however, these debates pass over their heads. The fundamental concern of these citizens today is that their children receive a pluralist and open education in their schools; that they may safely walk the streets of their towns; that they may be able to publicly express what they think; that they may be able to exercise their right to a free vote; that they may be able to hold a position representing their people, without endangering their lives or those of their families. And these thousands of European citizens rightly expect local, national and European administrations to guarantee their fundamental rights. That is why it seems to me essential that the Community institutions, as well as dealing with the constitution, the euro and enlargement, respond to what we European citizens, in Spain for example, who live there, consider to be our first priority: the fight against terrorism, that is, the fight for freedom, for respect for human rights and for the rule of law which we Spaniards have built after four decades of dictatorship. The creation of a common area of freedom, security and justice is what the European Council in Tampere in October 1999 called for. We must congratulate the current Belgian Presidency for having made this one of its priorities, and we place great value, of course, on the laudable work of Commissioner Vitorino, who I hope will find support in this debate for the use of his powers of legislative initiative. I believe that the European Parliament, the House which represents the European citizens, has had a special responsibility in this task, which our President, Nicole Fontaine, has taken on with a decisiveness and courage that those who have directly or indirectly suffered terror will never forget. I am sure that your successors will have this same attitude. I therefore also believe that we can be reasonably satisfied in voting for this report today on the role of the European Union in the fight against terrorism, the importance of which is demonstrated by the fact that its rapporteur is the very Chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Rights and Freedoms, Graham R. Watson. He is presenting this House with a text approved in committee by a huge majority, as he has said, and which contains such fundamental considerations as the statement that democratic dialogue must be based on mutual respect and non-violence, or the recognition of the debt that society owes to the victims of terrorist acts and their families. In approving this report we are making a series of recommendations which, when implemented, will allow us to create a common definition within the European Union of the crime of terrorism; to adopt the principle of mutual recognition of judgments; to replace the formal extradition procedures with a European search and arrest warrant for those crimes which cause particular revulsion in society. I am talking about terrorism of course, but also human trafficking, crimes against children, illegal drug and arms trafficking, corruption, fraud and organised crime. Madam President, with absolute respect for all the parliamentary groups, regardless of their political orientation and, of course, for the free vote of Members, I would now ask you to support the report because this is a fundamental issue which goes beyond party disputes. Through the implementation of the measures proposed in it, justice will have more instruments for guaranteeing the fundamental freedoms that formed the basis for the construction of Europe and which have been restricted by terrorism for thousands of Europeans. – Mr President, I simply wanted to point out that the Spanish media are very professional and that it therefore does not surprise me that they have this ability to access sources of information. – Mr President, it appears from yesterday’s Minutes that Mr Barón Crespo replied to an intervention of mine from the previous day. Do not worry, Mr President, I am not going to exercise my right to reply to personal references. And furthermore, I confess I do not have the parliamentary skill to reply to a personal reference within 24 hours. I simply wish, through his colleagues, to offer him my willingness to co-operate. –  Madam President, I also believe that the hearings process has been rigorous and useful, as my group has stated, and we have all taken an important step towards the transparency of the Community’s institutions. And as the coda to these hearings, in my judgement, Mr Prodi has shown signs of political good sense and courage in the speech which he has just made. The offers which he has made us, which are broadly accepted by this group, form a clear commitment to European integration and are a clear declaration of intentions with regard to the representation of citizens which this Parliament demonstrates. Where is the problem then? In my frank opinion, it lies in some people’s attempts to transfer their domestic debates to the Community institutions, in those governments which juggle European postings in order to satisfy the demands of pacts in their countries, and also in some opposition parties who wish to achieve on a higher level what they cannot achieve at home, like Mr Barón, in Spain, who has been ordered to prolong the internal domestic debate by attacking the Vice-President-designate of the European Commission in, as he well knows, an unjust and dishonest way. Mr Barón, please display more independence, more prudence and, above all, more responsibility. Ask the advice of your sympathisers, Mr Solbes and Mr Solana, because we know how these things begin but not how they end and, sometimes, the schemes backfire. You have some experience in this respect. And above all, do not try to distort the facts. State here that the Committee of Inquiry on flax of the Congress of Deputies has already approved its conclusions. State clearly that this Committee has cleared Mrs de Palacio of any responsibility, pointing out that the responsibility for the management, control and granting of subsidies falls to the Spanish Autonomous Communities, and famously the one governed by one of your cohorts in Castilla La Mancha. I will end, Madam President, by saying that I want to forget about this squalor because it is not our style. We still have an enormous task to perform during the next five years, in which dialogue and the existence of a consensus between us and between the institutions is essential if we are to continue to make progress. We offer you our co-operation. – I would like to focus on one of the central ideas of the Belgian presidency, according to what has been said this morning. I believe we can all agree on the following consideration: the free movement of people, goods and capital which we enjoy in the European Union has also given rise to the free movement of criminals within our borders but, nevertheless, since there is no free movement of police or judicial decisions, we are running the risk of creating an area of impunity within Europe. Furthermore, we must recognise that the progress made since Tampere in the development of the third pillar has not responded to the ambitions drawn up there. In Laeken, within the planned assessment of the degree of compliance with the European Commission’s scoreboard for the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, the Heads of Government are being offered an excellent opportunity to provide a political impulse for this process. I would therefore ask Mr Verhofstadt to decide to favour a political declaration of this nature, which would inject new dynamism into the process started at Tampere. This means creating more efficient instruments for combating terrorism, such as the European arrest order. The European Union, Mr President, is an area with harmonisable judicial systems in the field of judicial guarantees and respect for human rights, and we must therefore ‘communitise’ the fight against organised crime. – Madam President, some MEPs will probably be surprised to hear the reality of the situation, which is that Gibraltar is a British colony. It is very odd that there are still colonies within the European Union in the year 2000, but that is the case, Madam President. Mr President, Mr Gorostiaga has never condemned any of ETA’s attacks, whoever their victims have been. He has on occasions expressed regret when there have been deaths and he has always justified ETA’s terrorist actions. This is precisely what is known as an apology for terrorism and I would therefore like to express my solidarity with Mr Titley in relation to what has happened to him and what he has said today. –  Mr President, at this stage of the debate nobody can doubt that the main threat to our security as Europeans today is terrorism. No distinction should be made between national and international terrorism because, in the world in which we live, terrorism is global and the Member States alone do not have the capacity to combat it effectively. In this regard, it should be recognised that, since the tragic attacks of 11 September 2001, we have made considerable progress at European and international level in combating this scourge. It is not, therefore, appropriate today to make a declaration on our commitment to the fight against terrorism – which is a given – but it is appropriate to debate with the Commission and the Council the practical measures adopted, the effectiveness of their implementation in all the Member States, and, above all, what more we can and must do. In order to accomplish this, we must use, as a framework, the action plan that has already been adopted and, as an objective, the necessary transfer to the Convention on the future of the European Union of the mandate to develop the third pillar and continue to extend the Community legal basis in this field. I am briefly going to talk about a few ideas which, at the proposal of my group, have been included in the common resolution upon which we are to vote tomorrow, as they are in keeping with the role of driving force which the European Parliament has been playing, even since before the September 11 attacks. We must prioritise the adoption of new rules that protect the victims of terrorism, harmonising national legislations and – why not? – creating a Community instrument to protect victims. We also need to introduce democratic clauses into association and partnership agreements signed by the European Union with third countries – the agreement we are shortly to sign with Lebanon can set a precedent – and we must adopt shared measures between the Member States which avoid instrumentalising the democratic framework to the benefit of both terrorists, directly, and their necessary accomplices and collaborators, indirectly. Within the scope of current legislation, and within the scope of the Rule of Law, the European Union must always be vigilant in the face of any attempt to justify recourse to violence, because there is no such thing as good and bad terrorists. They are all equally despicable. The motive behind their crimes is always the same, and their result, which is equally unjust, is that there have already been deaths in the Basque country and in Indonesia. – Mr President, the Spring Councils usually provide the setting for a debate between the Heads of State and Government on establishing the broad guidelines that will map out the path we should follow, and in the Lisbon European Council the bases were effectively established to create a Union that is close to its citizens and which is underpinned by an increasingly open and dynamic economy. This objective, which was announced at that time; to make Europe an area of full employment, and to make its economy the most competitive in the world by 2010, was endorsed in Barcelona. Furthermore, clear and practical decisions were taken last weekend which will, in practice, provide a definitive boost to the strategy of promoting greater economic integration, greater social cohesion and greater growth in the economy and in employment throughout the Union. The existence of an increasingly interdependent global economic framework and the introduction of the euro in January were making it necessary to adopt the structural reforms that Parliament and, of course, my group have called for in several resolutions in the last two years. We therefore welcome the broad range of decisions taken by the Council, as can be seen from the diversity of issues that have already been raised at this stage of the debate by the various Parliamentary groups, whose observations have been entirely constructive. Amongst the agreements concluded in Barcelona, I should like to mention the three following: Firstly, the delegates were able to open the process of liberalising the energy sector by establishing the freedom for the business sector to choose their suppliers by the year 2004. It is important to emphasise, as the European Commission has done, that this measure is strengthened by the commitment to have, by 2005, a minimum level of electrical interconnections of 10% of its installed production capacity. Some might now say that we should have gone further, as my group had hoped, but the fact is that the obstacles to liberalisation have been removed, something which, in all honesty, few people expected could happen in Barcelona. This is also something that will certainly create the necessary dynamics that should – we feel quite sure of this – enable us to complete the process earlier than seems possible at the moment. Secondly, the Council has agreed to give the final green light to work starting on the Galileo satellite navigation project, with the creation of a joint undertaking and by freeing up the corresponding budgetary resources. Lastly, I should like to emphasise the social dimension of this Summit, before which an unprecedented meeting with union leaders and businessmen took place, which must be followed up, thereby giving a commitment to boosting social dialogue. To sum up, in little more than two months after the introduction of the euro, we are being given a clear opportunity to boost the economic and social reform that the European internal market needs. It must be said that Barcelona was proof of the smooth running of the Community method and of interinstitutional dialogue and the chairman of the Socialist Group should be reminded that we have not even reached the halfway point of the Spanish Presidency. We must now prove our commitment to the process of modernisation and economic liberalisation, and in this regard the PPE-DE Group can be counted on to provide unwavering support and I welcome the fact that others have accepted the ideas that will guarantee progress for our Community, albeit at the expense of saying the opposite here of what they say in their home countries. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a comment on what took place outside the Council the civic pride of the people of Barcelona and the professionalism of the security forces matched the peaceful attitude of the vast majority of the thousands of demonstrators whose rights were respected and guaranteed. This does not mean, of course, that we agree with their demands, because, Mr President, the Heads of State and Government who met in the Council have complete democratic legitimacy. Mr President, practically all the parliamentary groups and – it appears – all the Member States claim to want a new legal framework for the Union in the form of a Constitution. Work by many people over many months has resulted in a proposal with which a great majority appear to be in agreement. The good work of the Italian Presidency has furthermore allowed us over the weekend to add something very important to the agreement, which is the establishment of a European defence doctrine. All of this acquis, the fruit of negotiation – as Mr Berlusconi has said – must be recovered and consolidated as an approved text. What then has led to this failure? I believe that the failure stems from a proposed institutional reform which the President of the Convention came up with at the last moment, which was not debated sufficiently, and on which there was certainly no consensus within the Convention. Apparently in Brussels six months has not been enough time to complete a compromise. This is no great tragedy. We must remember that of the five previous Intergovernmental Conferences which negotiated reforms of the Treaties, only one ended within the six-month period in which it had begun. The Irish Presidency must simply carry on working where the Italian Presidency has left off. What I believe should be ruled out, Mr President, is the following: firstly, the absurd idea of postponing this debate until after the European elections; secondly, the idea that what interests me is Europeanist and that what does not interest me is anti-European; thirdly, the nonsense of dividing Europe even before it has been enlarged; and fourthly, the recriminations which get us nowhere, except for some people, of course – such as the President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists – who believe that the government of their country is solely to blame, whatever it does and whatever happens. I believe that the only phrase he knows in Italian is  [it is raining – damned government]. He indulges in this type of national opposition in the European Parliament and is then surprised that he loses election after election. It must be the electorate’s fault, naturally. In any event, we now all have responsibility. Mr President, we must keep the IGC open, we must contribute to dialogue and the commitment we all aspire to. Let us pray that we achieve it before 13 June. – Commissioner, you are appearing before the European Parliament with a proposal which demonstrates that the European Commission has failed in relation to managing the common fisheries policy. It now proposes that this failure should be paid for by the sector, not the whole sector, but rather the fishermen of the Mediterranean countries, who fish for human consumption, not for the manufacture of meal, who have made the greatest sacrifices in recent years by constantly reducing their fleet and who are now bearing the cost of this proposal. A cost, by the way, which your colleague responsible for the budget wants nothing to do with. So where are you going to get the EUR 240 million you need to incentivise the scrappings between 2003 and 2006? Are you going to get them from the Structural Funds? I would like to remind you of a figure produced by your own services. Between 1996 and 2000, Spain, for example, was obliged to reduce its fleet by 88 000 tonnes, and during that same period, Denmark, for example, increased its fleet, thanks to Community aid, by 64 000 tonnes. These figures come from your services. Do you intend to reassure the sector by saying that the fishermen of Spain and Portugal, after 17 years of waiting, will have access to the fishing grounds of the North Atlantic? That is guaranteed in the Act of Accession which, so far, the European Commission cannot modify. The Commissioner mentioned differences within the Commission, which he described as normal; what is not normal is that there should be such a pronounced geographical division between the three institutions. And since the World Cup is about to start, we could say that the score according to your proposal, Mr Commissioner, is ‘the North 1 – the South 0’, but we are at the beginning of the match and we hope that you will be a fair and unbiased referee. That is the important thing. What are trivial are certain speeches we heard at the beginning of this debate, which put domestic political interests before the future of thousands of families in Galicia or Andalusia, which is quite simply disgraceful, and I regret that the people or person who said that are absent. There is no institutional crisis here, but a personal crisis, a crisis of attitudes, a crisis which suggests that those who speak in this way will be in opposition for many years, to the benefit of everybody and in particular the fishermen of my country. Mr President, I should like to endorse the request made to the President by a previous speaker. It would be appropriate for condolences to be sent to the victims in Haifa. I would also ask for our condolences to be sent to the family of Jose Manuel Bernal Gomez, the Spanish official accredited in Baghdad. All terrorism is reprehensible, regardless of its origin. This week the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy adopted the report on the Middle East drawn up by Mr Menendez del Valle. I should like to say here and now, in advance of the vote at the next part-session, how much I welcome the effort made by all the political groups to agree on compromise amendments. If these are not changed in plenary, they will enable the text to be adopted with a substantial majority. I am not sure how much bearing the document will have on the situation, though I am sure it will be less than we hope for. Nonetheless, I am quite sure European Parliament resolutions that do not enjoy the support of a substantial majority are meaningless. Be that as it may, I would like to point out that the willingness of all the parliamentary groups to reach an agreement underlines the critical nature of the situation. Everyone has lost out during the three years of the Intifada. The only winners have been the extremists and they have taken the debate onto their own violent ground. We certainly all agree that the quality of life of both Palestinians and Israelis is now worse than it was three years ago. Regardless of the method of comparison used, it is clear that both groups have lost out as regards social welfare, freedom and security. As I see it, it is simplistic and therefore useless to attempt to apportion blame to individuals on one or other side. I believe all those involved share the blame for the present situation. I agree with Mrs Morgantini on this. Obviously, we each have different views and sensitivities regarding the conflict. I am sure, however, that we all agree on our dislike of walls such as the so-called security wall. Undoubtedly, the Israeli Government does have a duty to defend its citizens against terrorism, but this is not the best way to do so. I believe we are all of one mind as regards condemnation of targeted killings. We are all alarmed too at the danger of the conflict spreading to neighbouring countries. Further, I believe we all agree that we would like to see in place a Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority who would be willing and able to act against terrorist organisations and put an end to them. Control of the security forces is required, obviously. Mr Abu Mazen was unsuccessful in this regard. We are as yet unsure how the government being formed by Mr Abu Ala will fare. His track record has earned him the support of the House. I would ask honourable Members to take a moment to reflect on how they might be feeling if during the last three years terrorist attacks had become almost weekly events in their countries, and if these attacks had caused nearly 500 civilian victims. I therefore believe we must continue to back the Quartet. There is currently no alternative to the Road Map, and the European Union’s foreign policy needs to be supported. We must believe in ourselves. We would all prefer the Union’s foreign policy to have more resources at its disposal and enjoy greater visibility. We would also like it to be able to call on a joint diplomatic service. Nonetheless, the Union’s foreign policy does sometimes have more influence than we might think. This is particularly so in the case of the Middle East. – Madam President, you will remember perfectly that, at the last plenary part-session which we held here in Brussels, all the political groups, without exception, condemned the murder of the Basque Socialist Member of Parliament, Fernando Buesa, at the hands of ETA. Since then, Madam President, dozens of Spanish and Basque citizens have been victims of attacks, extortion and threats of a type that can only be described as fascist. In fact, almost every day we witness events that take us back to the darkest days of European history. The Spanish journalist, Carlos Herrera, is a symbol of all those victims, Madam President, and I would like to ask you, on behalf of the European Parliament, to convey to him our feeling of solidarity, because this solidarity expresses the unquestionable defence of freedom of expression that we, as democrats, are obliged to make. – Madam President, it is true that the situation seems to have settled into a horrendous vicious circle in which there are threats and acts of violence from both sides, such as the attack just a few hours ago in West Jerusalem. We should all be wondering how we have been able to get into this situation, when, in January of this year, the then Labour Government of Israel put forward a peace proposal which today seems almost unimaginable. However, the Prime Minister, Mr Sharon, could also be asking himself whether the sense of insecurity which his compatriots are feeling today is greater or less than before he won the election comfortably. Yasser Arafat could also be asking himself whether his people are living better or worse than eleven months ago when the  began. I do not believe that we should be attributing blame here and I do not think we should be indulging in a simplistic reading of the events, but there is no doubt that the break-up of the negotiations has had a profound effect on Israeli and Palestinian public opinion. In Israel this has meant that broad sections of the left in that country, above all those who were most involved in the negotiations at Sharm El Sheik, Camp David and Taba, are deeply disappointed in the Palestinian leader. This emotional reaction is combined with a more reflective reaction from some representatives of the right in Israel who agree on denying Mr Arafat the opportunity to negotiate. My group, Madam President, believes that this attitude is profoundly mistaken and that it in no way contributes to a recovery of the peace process. In the current circumstances it may be that Mr Arafat still has additional room for manoeuvre in terms of halting the violence, but he surely has less than the Israeli authorities are demanding of him. And, in any event, there is not the slightest sign on the horizon of any alternative possibility of negotiation on the Palestinian side. There is clearly nothing edifying about the situation of the Palestinian territories, whose citizens are living with a sense of humiliation and indignity, which is fertile ground for radical fundamentalism. But now more than ever the Palestinian Authority should demonstrate that it is prepared to comply with, and ensure compliance with, a peace agreement which in no way is going to fulfil all their aspirations. Despite the pessimism reigning on both sides, or perhaps because of it, the role of the international community is now essential. The European Union now has a broader margin for action, which it must exploit through specific contributions, using its economic influence in the area for political ends, ensuring that its development aid is applied to projects which bring specific benefits to the population and that, of course, it is coherent with the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and creating better and closer coordination with the negotiating forces of the US Government. Madam President, on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the Madrid Conference, the European Union must recover the principle of ‘peace for land’, which inspired the peace talks. Like ten years ago, we Europeans now have to double our efforts, and my parliamentary group would therefore like to ask the Belgian Presidency to propose to the Council that we need to reinforce the team of our Special Representative, Mr Moratinos. –  Mr President, I am now in a position to provide Parliament with more details. The local councillor of the governing Partido Popular party, José Luis Ruiz Casado, was firstly shot in the back of the head and, on falling to the ground, was finished off by his killers. As I said before, Mr Nogueira, a person may choose which side of the fence to sit on, but he later cannot seek futile excuses to justify his decision. Mr Gorostiaga, in the name of this freedom of expression that you cite, can you look me in the eyes and assure me that neither myself nor my family are under threat from ETA for using this freedom of expression here in Parliament? Can you honestly assure me of that, Mr Gorostiaga? – Mr President, I simply wished to inform the House that this very morning the Popular Party Councillor, Francisco Cano, was murdered in the town of Villadecavalls, in the province of Barcelona. Francisco Cano was 45 years old, married with two daughters and was an electrician by trade. He was a worker and, like those who accompanied us yesterday when we awarded the Sakharov Prize, he was a private citizen who served the democratic system which the Spanish have chosen. I am sure that we are all now united in our vigorous and forthright defence of freedom in Europe, but I wish to say that, more than the solidarity of the Members of the European Parliament, we in Spain need their commitment. I would like to ask you if you agree to our holding a minute’s silence in memory of Francisco Cano. –  Mr President, do you not think that it would be a better idea – and I say this, of course, as a point of order, not as an intervention – if we waited a few more minutes for the Minister to arrive? It would be difficult, you understand, for me to respond to the representative of the Council if he did not have the opportunity to speak first. I therefore suggest that the sitting be suspended for less than 10 minutes, until nine o’clock, which is the time the Minister is due to arrive at Parliament. – Madam President, since 11 September, there have been many opportunities to think about and debate upon the consequences of the events of that fateful day and today is no exception. Without a doubt, the attacks in New York have made us realise that nobody can feel entirely safe from terrorism. When a man and a woman are murdered in Beasaín, as happened last week, for example, each and every one of us is affected, and it is not reasonable to ask the elected representatives of a democracy, Mr Watson, to have to debate under the threat of death. These events have also reminded us that we were a long way behind in meeting the commitments that the Heads of State and Government had given in Tampere in order to develop the third pillar of the European Union. The report that we approved by a large majority in committee contains contributions which, in my opinion, are very valid, to the otherwise excellent Commission proposal. For example, to define street violence as clearly being one form of terrorist expression, or to incorporate a reference to victims and their families and to offer political support and legal protection with the aim of identifying terrorism and bringing terrorists and their supporters to justice through the courts. This is precisely the purpose of the amendment we tabled in plenary and should be interpreted in this way. I hope that these and other contributions will be added to the text that the Council is debating, and, in particular, this latter amendment, which I hope the rapporteur will also vote for and will be taken into consideration when the European list of terrorist organisations that Parliament requested is drawn up. The Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs should fulfil their duty on the 6 and 7 December, and if they do not do so, the Presidency will have to honour its commitment to Parliament to take this issue at Laeken, and if any Member State there is tempted to block a proposal that has the widespread support of our citizens, it seems appropriate to me that closer cooperation should be implemented according to provisions of Article 40 of the Treaty. The Council’s requests do not date from 11 September. In September 2000, one year ago, the vast majority of MEPs signed a written declaration requesting the methods that today have been submitted for our consideration. These are the same methods that we are asking the Commission for in the own-initiative report on the role of the European Union in the fight against terrorism that we approved, also by a very large majority, on 5 September. Therefore, it needs to be made very clear that none of these measures makes the slightest reduction in the civil liberties of European citizens. The opposite is the case, we are giving the judicial system instruments to enable it to better protect everyone’s freedom because, faced with the free movement of crime, we must open the doors to the free movement of justice. – Mr President, I would like to join several other speakers in expressing satisfaction at the conclusions of the General Affairs Council and praising those people who have been involved in this agreement. But we naturally hope for more and we therefore ask that work continue in order to achieve a fundamental consensus between the European Union’s current four representatives on the United Nations Security Council, in the hope that the four will act, at least, in a coordinated fashion. But I believe that that consensus demands at least two things: the first is not to publicise unilateral positions but to debate them with our partners and the second is to be loyal – but not copycats – to our natural allies. Because although it seems obvious, we must remember that in this conflict the person who is threatening world peace, failing to comply with international law and presenting us with the real risk that international terrorists may acquire chemical and bacteriological weapons is Saddam Hussein. And it does not take any great feat of memory to conclude that the only language the Iraqi Government understands from the international community is firmness. And this firmness is not credible if we say beforehand that in no event, whatever happens, can the use of force be justified, as the President of my group quite rightly said. This is not pacifism, it is demagoguery and irresponsibility. In order to genuinely work for peace, what we have to do is act decisively against violations of international law and against repeated non-compliance with the resolutions of the United Nations. We believe that the European Union should continue to explore all political and diplomatic avenues in order to resolve the conflict in a peaceful manner, with our allies, as is natural, and also, and in particular, with our friends, the Arab nations. I would remind you of the unanimous support of the Arab League and the Gulf Cooperation Council for Resolution 1441, because this is not a religious conflict or a conflict between civilisations – incidentally, it would be good to take this opportunity to relaunch Euro-Mediterranean relations. In order to be credible, the European Union must be prepared to make its contribution to guaranteeing and preserving international peace and security. The inspectors’ reports to the Security Council are conclusive in terms of the non-compliance with Resolution 1441. They are not being given the required assistance to carry out their work and they are not being given the evidence to show that weapons of mass destruction have been eliminated, and the simple fact that terrorist groups may acquire these weapons should be cause for alarm on the part of the international community. The Iraqi regime today has a new opportunity; let us pray that it takes that opportunity and that we can all prevent anything worse from happening. But if the Iraqi Government persists in ignoring the requirements demanded of it, not for just a month or two, but since April 1991, when Resolution 687 was adopted, democratic parliaments such as the European Parliament must demand of the executive powers that they meet their responsibilities. Democratic and responsible governments must not make decisions on the basis of opinion polls, which are variable, but by informing the public, engaging in political debate but defending the higher principles at stake, such as international peace and security, not the price of oil. And periodically, by means of democratic elections, the citizens will judge whether the governments, and also the oppositions, have made the right decisions. – Mr President, in our plenary sitting in September we experienced and shared moments of optimism and hope with Abraham Burg, speaker of the Knesset, and Ahmed Qurie, President of the Palestinian Legislative Council. A month and a half later, what we are now sharing is great concern over the way events are developing. On the one hand, there is the decision by the head of the Israeli government to put the peace negotiations on hold due to the violence in the area and focus on the creation of a government of national unity with the head of the opposition, Mr Sharon. On the other, there is the feeling that paramilitary militias and fundamentalist agitators have taken over the streets and taken the initiative in the territories under the control of the Palestinian National Authority. What is certain is that it is in difficult times such as these that the historic stature of political leaders is measured. Right now, Mr Barak and Mr Arafat must make their people understand that it is only through dialogue at a negotiating table, with painful concessions on both sides, that the conflict can be definitively resolved. The international community, and in particular the European Union, must persevere with their efforts to avoid a confrontation which would, moreover, constitute an extremely serious source of global instability. From a European perspective, for the first time since the Madrid conference, the European flag has been on the table in the peace process. The unity of action at a given moment has made it possible for the work and prestige of one of the Member States in this area to be used to the benefit of all. And while we are immersed in the institutional debate we could ask the European Commission to show creativity and political decisiveness in order to make progress in our integration in the second pillar as well. Does the French Presidency not agree? – Mr President, in my country there is currently a judicial process under way to ban Batasuna, with the sole objective of protecting democracy and the system of freedoms and, in this regard, I am grateful for your institutional words of support, because the truth is that there are hundreds of pieces of evidence linking ETA with Batasuna and it is not acceptable that public subsidies are being used to finance terror. Just today Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso has missed another opportunity to condemn this murder. Neither does he question the fact that his colleagues, at events that he organises, shout support for ETA or chant ‘Kill them, ETA’. What Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso has done is to gather together more than EUR 200 000, put it in the boot of a car and try to send it to Spain. Mr President, we cannot stand by, we have the right and the obligation to prevent this appropriated money being used for the evil purposes of terrorism. – Mr President, Mrs Díez, of course I would withdraw any type of insult or slur in my speech, if I could, and I would challenge you to read the verbatim report for this sitting and tell me whether it contains any insult or slur, because I will withdraw them without question. What I want to say, Mr President and Mrs Díez, is that committees of inquiry are laid down in Rule 151 of our Rules of Procedure – I would ask you to read them, please. And this request to create a committee of this type is justified by non-compliance with Community law, and it has been said here, explicitly and literally, by some of your colleagues and compatriots, that the intention through this committee is to establish the responsibilities of the Spanish Government in relation to the disaster. This has been said here, literally. What I am saying is that you cannot say in Spain that we are going together to ask for more funds and then say here that the funds should not be given because the Spanish Government is at fault. That is what I meant. – Mr President, with regard to the repair of the British submarine  in Gibraltar, we should remember what we want from the Commission. What the various parliamentary Groups have expressed in their questions is that we want the Commission to inform us about their representations to the Government of the United Kingdom with a view to ensuring compliance with the obligations contained in the legislation in force and, secondly, to inform us about its initiatives on this issue, in accordance with the powers attributed to it, where relevant, by the Euratom Treaty. Of course, we await the Commission’s reply with great interest, in order to see whether the objective has been fulfilled. We do not doubt the Commission’s good intentions, but we all hope that we do not have to regret ending this debate with the same information with which we started it. There is no doubt that very diverse interests are at play in this debate – and this is also the case within my Group. However, we have made an effort to achieve dialogue and mutual understanding, which I believe could allow us to broaden this consensus on the basic issues to a majority in this House. Furthermore, that is what can be deduced from a careful reading of the motions for resolutions of the Socialist and European People’s Party/European Democrat Groups. In both, I truly believe that we agree on the essential issues. In both, we express our understanding of the natural concern of the local population. In both, we ask for the greatest degree of transparency, in order not to promote unfounded fears. In both, we ask the Commission to examine the possibilities contained in the current Treaties to ascertain what opportunities it has to contribute to this issue. In both, we express the need for the two Member States involved, the United Kingdom and Spain, to work together closely to find a safer solution for the repair of the submarine, while keeping the public fully up-to-date, of course. If, in the light of the texts presented, we agree on this – and this is a lot – I wonder why we have not been able to produce a joint motion for a resolution. I can assure you that it was not due to a lack of will on the part of my Group. The fact that the Socialist Group presented an urgent motion for a resolution in the last plenary session; that it then voted in favour of a proposal from my Group to remove that point of order; the fact that it did not attend a meeting called by all groups to try to produce a consensus text; and that then the main signatory of the Socialist resolution and various others also signed the joint motion for a resolution of the Green and United Left Groups, no doubt sends us all into confusion. And what is the Socialist Group going to vote for now? That is anyone’s guess. I would modestly like to suggest that they vote for our motion for a resolution. And I would humbly like to advise my Spanish Socialist compatriots to be guided by the general interest. – Mr President, this report is based on the Hughes Procedure and the Committee on Budgets has alerted us that there is an apparent contradiction between Paragraphs 3 and 12, which refer to greater human resources for the external service and Paragraph 28, which actually comes from the Committee on Budgets, which emphasises that this additional staff is only justified within the budget in force. Therefore, in order to harmonise the proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the proposal from the Committee on Budgets, I am going to table an oral amendment specifying that the budgetary limits established in Paragraph 28 apply to human resources requested under Paragraphs 3 and 12, and I would like to propose this, exceptionally, before the vote, so that the different parliamentary groups can confirm that they do not reject this proposal, which would enable the Socialist Group to withdraw its request for a separate vote for Paragraphs 3 and 12. – Mr President, in 1997, the Commission approved an interpretative communication – and I stress interpretative – on intra-Community investments, which was not submitted to the European Parliament or to the Council. And under the auspices of this Communication, the Commission has to date begun legal actions, if our calculations are correct, against nine of the fifteen Member States. Nobody questions the Commission’s duty to pursue alleged infringements of Community Law. The Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats’ criticism is that, by means of an interpretative communication, the Commission has unilaterally set the rules of the game in such an important area, and this is proved by the fact that the Stockholm European Council has dealt with it, thereby side-stepping, in our view, the legislative competences of this Parliament and of the Council. I assume that Commissioner Bolkestein will be aware that the Court of Justice has already set the precedent of annulling an interpretative communication similar to this one, on pension funds, precisely because the Commission exceeded its authority. But it is also the case, Commissioner, that this Communication of 1997 has become obsolete because of recent economic developments. For all these reasons, it is very important to this House that the Commissioner replies clearly whether he intends, in accordance with his competences, to present a legislative proposal on intra-Community investments to Parliament and the Council. My Group, of course, believes this to be essential, given the current circumstances, and I am certain that, at the end of this debate, the Commissioner will be convinced that this presumption is agreed on by the enormous majority of this House. Of these new circumstances which I have just referred to, I am going to expand on the opening up of national markets in key economic sectors, in which there still exist within the European Union monopoly systems which create asymmetry. In fact, in accordance with Community guidelines, certain Member States have made great efforts to open up their telecommunications and other sectors to competition. However, other States have not taken equivalent measures and their markets therefore remain closed to external competition. This is why the PPE-DE Group believes that we should permit prevention mechanisms such as the "golden share", because otherwise objective discrimination may arise. I would therefore ask the Commissioner what measures the Commission intends to present in order to allow the Member States which are working to open up and privatise their economies to free competition to preserve the objective of that privatisation? Commissioner, on Thursday, this Parliament will vote on a resolution which will establish its position at the end of the debate. I am convinced that the Commission will at all times apply the interinstitutional agreement which binds us and that you, Commissioner, will therefore act in accordance with your powers of legislative initiative and consequently present this House with a specific proposal immediately. –  Mr President, while we have been here discussing these issues, José Luis Ruiz, a town councillor of the governing Partido Popular party in a town in Catalonia, has been murdered by ETA. Some are trying to confuse us and seem intent on creating confusion between the people of good will in Parliament. But there is a clearly defined line that separates us. On one side stand those that die for democracy, and on the other, stand those that kill in their attempts to deprive us of our freedom. – Mr President, perhaps you could give the Commissioner the opportunity to explain to the House what he intends to do with this Parliament initiative, bearing in mind the new code of conduct which governs relations between Parliament and the Commission. – Mr President, we all regret Europe’s failure in this crisis and the fact that the existing instruments for coordinating our foreign policy have shown themselves to be ineffective. There is no question that our group wishes the European Union to have an autonomous position in the world based on the defence of legitimate interests, but also on values such as democracy, respect for human rights and freedom, in other words, everything that the regime of Saddam Hussein has destroyed in his own country and everything we share with the United States. And therefore my group advocates strengthening the transatlantic link which has united us at other times in our history, which have also been difficult, as the President of the Catalonian Government has said. Despite the obvious differences within the European Union, there are certain things which I believe, now more than ever, we are obliged to do together. We must increase our efforts to contribute to the search for peace in the Middle East, and to eliminate the points of tension in the Maghreb and, of course, provide humanitarian aid during the conflict and then assist in the human, political and economic reconstruction of the country afterwards, as the Presidency of the Union has pointed out. I would ask the European Commission to reflect on whether it was hasty in some of the statements it made in this regard. At times like this it is easier to look the other way, it is easier to hide behind a banner than to confront tyranny. Sometimes it is more profitable as well. What we must do is respect the opinions of others. However, experience has taught us, Mr President, that force is the only response to oppression, and we are only servants of our democratic convictions. – Mr President, unfortunately the situation in the region is still very critical. There are enormous restrictions on the Palestinian people, military action is persisting, terrorist actions are persisting and, as has been said here, last week another fifteen civilians were murdered and more than fifty were wounded. We must take account of the fact that no democratic society can endure weekly terrorist actions without demanding that its leaders act. In addition, on a political level, we have witnessed the regrettable resolution approved by Likud, the importance of which we should not overestimate since luckily it is a minority view within the Knesset and also within Israeli society, as indicated by the opinion polls mentioned by Mr Solana, just as the statements by the leader of the radical Islamic group Hamas do not naturally represent the views of the Palestinian National Authority. However, there are some hopeful signs. The huge demonstration by citizens in Israel calling for an end to the occupation, President Arafat’s statements against terrorist actions, ordering police action and indicating his willingness to accept co-existence with a Jewish State, which coincide with the statements made in Sharm-el-Sheikh by Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Libya, and also the end of the confinement of Mr Arafat and the siege of the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, are naturally extremely positive. The hand of the European Union is clearly evident in some of these hopeful signals – and we should bear this in mind since we often tend to underestimate our own capacities. The mediation of the European Union is crucial and we must therefore roundly reject the unfair and unfounded accusations that Community contributions are being misused. I am happy with the speedy and thorough explanation by Commissioner Patten, but, as he himself has said, we must be very scrupulous. On previous occasions my group has expressed its concern about the destination of certain aid for education. The parties in the conflict recognise that the participation of the international community is essential. We must contribute to consolidating the existence of the Quartet so that it may ensure the staging of an international conference, which of course incorporates the Arab countries, and let there be no doubt that the European Union will play a prominent role in that conference. – Mr President, in Lisbon, a common horizon was set, establishing structural reforms for the modernisation of our economy, in order to increase growth and employment. However, our Union goes beyond the field of the economy. It is based on fundamental principles, listed in Article 6 of the Treaty, which many of us have seen called into question in one particular Member State. All we democrats should be delighted to see the Union immediately reacting to any apparent threat to the values on which our co-existence is based. In the PPE we have analysed – in my humble opinion, objectively and competently – the political situation in Austria and we have agreed, within our political family, on a system of conditions and of monitoring which we pray will make a positive contribution to the resolution of this crisis. These have been lively months internationally. I will now focus purely on the Middle East. Israel, Syria and the Lebanon are living through intense time in terms of national politics, as has been said this morning in this House. I believe that these circumstances offer a new opportunity for definitive peace in the region. Therefore, we have to demand of our Heads of Government and of the European Commission that they take the responsibility which the circumstances demand of the European Union, by increasing our joint political presence, of course, but also in the economic field, concluding the associations agreements once and for all, and implementing the Barcelona agreements more quickly. I hope that these events will remind us of our moral, historical, political and economic commitments to our Mediterranean neighbours, which must not be passed over in favour of other geographical areas. Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party and European Democrats, I want to express our most profound feeling of solidarity with the families of Fernando Buesa, an elected representative of the Basque people, and Jorge Díez, a member of the Basque police force. We also naturally want to express our solidarity with the whole of the Basque Socialist Party. In recent times, in this House, we have sadly had to discuss the various faces of extremism in Europe. It does not matter what banner these come under because, in the end, they are all different expressions of the same thing. Faced with these, we democrats cannot resign ourselves to the peace of the dead. On the contrary, we must take strength from knowing that the only social division which exists in the Basque Country is the abyss which separates those who kill, and those who support and express understanding for the latter, from the vast majority of the Basque people who simply want to live in peace and freedom. – Mr President, I would like Mr Barón Crespo to clarify for us the relationship between the flax case, which is being tried in Spain, and the Eurostat affair. It is akin to my asking us to debate the result of the Madrid city council elections now. There were winners and losers in those elections, but, to be quite honest, I can see no connection between the two points. – Madam President, since the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market cannot be here today for health reasons – she will be here next Monday when the coordinators of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market debate this issue – and therefore is not able to reply to Mr Medina, I would like to say something to him. Madam President, we Spanish Members of Parliament – all of us – have the right to be judged in Spain only by the Supreme Court, a right that has not been recognised in this case by the Spanish judge because he believes that it concerns a non-Spanish Member of Parliament from a non-Spanish Parliament. However, this petition for waiver of parliamentary immunity has been dealt with as if it concerned a Spanish Member of Parliament in a Spanish Parliament. Madam President, I simply say this to illustrate the legal complexity of the affair. I believe that the Presidency of the European Parliament is acting very prudently on this issue in order not to jeopardise the legal process. There is only one precedent in my country, which dates from 1991. That precedent was dealt with through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and was received by the then President of the European Parliament – a colleague of yours and mine, Mr Medina – Mr Enrique Barón Crespo. Madam President, I am sure that nobody here is suffering an attack of Alzheimer’s, but that some people are surely seeking to manipulate this Parliament for reasons of party politics in their own countries, which I believe we should all oppose, Madam President. Mr President, in general terms this House shares the concern expressed in Mrs Morgantini’s question. Commissioner Vitorino has clarified the Commission’s position and, in my opinion, has responded adequately to the concerns raised here. However, I feel that we should not leave the matter there. Starting from this previous statement, the lines of agreement could be extended on the basis of the privileged information which Mrs Morgantini and myself were able to obtain when we accompanied the President of this House on a tour of the area. Firstly, despite the current difficulties which we saw for ourselves , we must repeat our support for the direct dialogue between the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority which is producing a fair, stable and definitive peace agreement. Secondly, it is in the interests of both parties to ensure the economic development of the region and to take decisive action to reduce the serious imbalances in the distribution of wealth in the area. Thirdly and finally, perhaps the Commission could bear in mind the usefulness of participating in the work of a tripartite working group, naturally involving the European Union, to guarantee compliance with trade agreements and to ensure progress in the assistance offered by the European Union to all the parties concerned. – I am sure Mr Solana will agree with me when I say that the current goals of those of us who have a greater or lesser responsibility with regard to the process of European integration far outweigh the most optimistic ambitions of the European leaders at the time, for example, when you presided over the General Affairs Council of the European Community. And within this framework you have taken on the important task of personifying the joint effort to put in place a foreign and security policy which concerns us all. As you reminded us the other day in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you are at the other end of that telephone which Kissinger spoke of. And please be assured that, in your task, you can count on the stimulus and support of this House and my group in particular. I am convinced that you will not disappoint us. Since I am confident that you will make every effort to ensure that our foreign policy will respond to balanced criteria, which will, without doubt, confirm that you give priority to the political and economic convergence of all those countries which, like Spain, almost 25 years ago, are moving from an autocratic regime to a liberal regime and that you will ensure that peace will always reign on European soil. I am also sure that you will guarantee our prominent role throughout the Mediterranean region, another priority both in economic and in security terms, and that we will effectively safeguard our interests in Latin America, for example by ensuring compliance with the commitment made with the United States Government with regard to the application of the Helms-Burton law. I am surprised that Mr Solana did not mention it this morning, although I have no doubt whatsoever concerning his convictions in that regard. In any event, we wish him every success in his work. –  Madam President, from the start of this legislature, the European Parliament, through its various bodies, has been working extremely hard to achieve peace in this region, making its contribution, of both a political and an economic nature, through the Union budgets. As Chairman of the Delegation for relations with Israel, it has been a privilege to share initiatives and trips with Mrs Morgantini, the Chairperson of the Delegation for relations with the Palestinian Legislative Council. Although we have certainly not always shared the same point of view, I am convinced that we have always shared the same good intentions. We have travelled together with Mrs Fontaine, the President of this House, and last Monday, as has already been mentioned, we received Mr Avram Burg, President of the Israeli Parliament and Mr Abu Ala, President of the Palestinian Legislative Council. We had lunch with this year’s winners of the Sakharov prize this very afternoon – as Mr Brok has just mentioned – a prize whose award is intended to symbolise and be understood as an expression of the European Parliament’s good intentions. We are now participating in this debate on a recommendation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy. I think that, right now, for the first time, we are facing a situation where no reason can be found to be optimistic and for this very reason, I think that the Council recommendation is most appropriate and useful, above all in its final version which the Groups agreed on this morning and which I am sure we will vote for, because the only thing left is intercession, even international intervention, without which we would probably be facing a situation of all-out war. Faced with today’s tragic circumstances, which are worsened by the international crisis, I firmly believe that the various parliamentary Groups should put our party political differences to one side, which would make our contribution, and that of the representatives of the European Union in this region, all the more effective. The situation we are experiencing is not akin to some kind of movie with good guys and bad guys and for this reason, and to maintain credibility, we need to call on the Israeli Government to stop its bombings, and the Palestinian Authority to prosecute without exception those extremists who are at the root of this terrorism which, under no circumstances, can be justified. At times such as these, political leaders cannot withdraw. They must stand up, for example, against the hatred of Israeli youth who call on the streets for the bombing of the Palestinian people in response to the terrorist attacks, and also stand up against this horrendous image of Palestinian children who gleefully celebrate the death of numerous innocent Israeli citizens in Jerusalem or Haifa. What exactly is being taught to these youngsters in schools? And if the current Israeli and Palestinian leaders are not capable of putting a stop to this, I am sure that sooner or later their peoples will punish them with their contempt. Mr President, I believe we can say with satisfaction that the European Parliament has worked to ensure that Euro-Mediterranean relations are a priority with the European Union’s foreign policy. This very afternoon we are going to deal with the strategy for a broader Europe – the Napoletano report – in which we point out the strategic importance of a more solid and global relationship with our Mediterranean partners and neighbours. Within this context, the Euro-Mediterranean Foreign Ministers Conference in Naples is going to conclude an objective which has long been pursued by this Parliament, which is the transformation of the Euro-Mediterranean Forum into a genuine assembly. I believe that this represents a clear message in favour of strengthening this relationship in all areas and it must have a fundamental objective, which is to guarantee that Euro-Mediterranean cooperation functions correctly, because this new assembly will allow for the monitoring of the correct application of the European Union's association agreements with each and every one of our Mediterranean partners and that monitoring has been widely requested by the European Parliament. Given the broad content of each of these agreements, which includes clauses of a political nature, which go beyond the purely economic elements, the task of the assembly in practice would be the political control of relationships between each side of the Mediterranean. From now on, I believe we must make progress in four areas. Firstly, facilitating freedom of exchanges. The closer we get to establishing an area of free trade, the more we will contribute to economic and social development, facilitating the emergence of positive synergies. Secondly, on the definitive implementation of a Euro-Mediterranean cultural foundation, and I hope that this conference will adopt specific decisions in this area. Thirdly, we must combat human-trafficking mafias more decisively, and this involves more active participation in the fight against illegal immigration.   Finally, Mr President, I believe we must not forget countries which are not part of the Barcelona process – I am referring to Libya and Mauritania. Parliament’s delegation for relations with the Maghreb is going to make them a priority in its efforts over the coming weeks and months. I will end, Mr President, by saying that I believe there are reasons for us to be happy with this impulse, which will be given institutional shape in Naples, and which will allow us to work on new initiatives. – Madam President, I would like to ask you, today being a special day, to apologise to the President of the Republic of France for the absence of some Members since, in the case of those who come from countries a long way from the centre of the European Union, their absence is not due to a lack of will but rather the lack of the means to carry out their parliamentary duties properly. I am sure that he will understand very well that there is no justification for the fact that from certain parts of my country, for example, it is more difficult, and takes longer, to get to Strasbourg than to Caracas. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to begin by congratulating the Commission on fulfilling its responsibility with regard to judicially demanding compliance with the Stability Pact. Rules must apply equally to everybody, because otherwise we will not be able to say that we live within the Rule of Law. Nevertheless, I regret that certain members of the Commission have made statements referring to a two-speed Europe, that is, dividing Europe up just when we are about to reunify. That is not the way for the Commission to carry out one of its essential functions; guardian of the Treaties. And, incidentally, it is reasonable, in a democratic system, that the head of the executive power be asked to respond to a parliamentary majority. I would like to praise the Irish Presidency for the clarity with which it has given its opinion on a two-speed Europe. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we expect a lot from the next six months and fully agree with the political priorities set and your commitment, which you have repeated this morning, to the European Constitution. We believe it is necessary to confront a process of reforms for the economic and social modernisation of the Union, to guarantee freedom, security and justice for the people who live or reside in it, and finally, to define more profound relations with the United States, in order to combat the new threats to our democracies and our fundamental rights more effectively. Ireland is a good example of what solidarity in the Union should be, and that solidarity is best expressed through our policy of economic and social cohesion. My country, Spain, also aspires to achieving real convergence with the European Union average because, according to our political philosophy, the aim is not to create permanently subsidised societies, but that our level of development must contribute to the internal economic balance of the Union. We wish the Irish Presidency every success over the coming months. – Mr President, naturally I agree with the principles expressed here by my fellow MEPs, but I would like to point out – and they probably know this – that your compatriot, Commissioner Vitorino, has already stated publicly, via a note, that there has been no infringement of the Schengen principle in these incidents, and furthermore the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already apologised to the people affected. Madam President, as Mr Patten has just said, debates on the critical situation in the Middle East are becoming a regular feature of Parliament’s sittings. This is all the more distressing if we think back to the discussions we held a few short months ago. Then, as you have just reminded us, we were considering the content of various draft proposals which seemed to be bringing the prospect of permanent peace in the region closer. Nowadays the agenda seems to be set by the most extremist elements on both sides. A permanent vicious circle of violence has been created. I certainly do not wish to name names or apportion blame, but the fact is that rightly or wrongly, the feeling of insecurity in Israel is stronger than ever. At the same time the belief is gaining ground that the Palestinian National Authority does not wish to act in a serious and determined manner to bring an end to the conflict, or is simply not in a position to do so. In the meantime, the rapid deterioration in living conditions in the Palestinian Territories is a cause for great concern. It creates fertile ground for the growth of the most radical sectors. Faced with this turn of events, the Palestinian National Authority appears to be losing its grip on the situation. At the same time, the population’s support for the Intifada and indeed for terrorist action against Israel is growing. This should be categorically condemned and decisive action taken against it. President Arafat neglected to do so as recently as yesterday evening in his televised address. In general, the Arab countries are becoming ever more demoralised and positions are hardening. Consequently, appeals have been made from the area to the international community and in particular to the European Union, requesting greater involvement in the peace process. However, we need to establish whether the parties to the conflict are genuinely interested in returning to the negotiating table or whether anyone still believes in a military solution to the problem. We have been pleased to welcome a delegation from the Israeli Parliament to the House today. I should like to assure them that the institutions of the European Union are more committed than ever to offering even-handed support, if both parties wish it, in order to rebuild the necessary confidence to allow peace negotiations to resume. I am sure members of that delegation have felt this for themselves. Unquestionably, the European Union has already made a significant effort to offer economic support, in line with its global political vision for the region. Our political involvement is increasing as we hone the Union’s foreign policy instruments. However, we still have a long way to go. Nonetheless, neither the Community nor anyone else can replace the will of the parties concerned to negotiate. We firmly believe that if the aim is to achieve genuine security and well being in the area, peaceful and negotiated settlements must be reconsidered. Confrontation has to cease, and all parties must work together again, striving for peaceful coexistence and cooperation. It is my heartfelt desire that this should come about at the earliest opportunity. – Mr President, as has been pointed out previously, we European citizens have witnessed, in astonishment and live on TV, a crime against humanity, as the president of my group pointed out, and an attempt to destroy our freedom and democracy. The first thing we must do is to share in the pain of the American people. Please allow me to say that we Spaniards fully understand the suffering of the victims. But in the immediate aftermath we must react determinedly in order to defend our freedom and to do justice to the victims, showing the terrorists and their accomplices that their objectives have failed. As in other eras of our history, it is essential that we reaffirm our democratic values in order to destroy the totalitarian course which terrorism takes us along. The European Parliament has demonstrated its unequivocal commitment to combating terrorism, and the Watson report is a clear example of this. But, now in particular, we must continue to put our political weight and impetus behind the concrete initiatives presented to us by the European Commission. The President of my Group has presented certain budgetary initiatives aimed at strengthening the role of Europol. Let us hope that the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs – and I appeal to its Chairman – may, for its part, set an agenda allowing it to present to Parliament a proposal this year, which will allow the Belgian and Spanish Presidencies to finish their work in the coming months. The European institutions have an inescapable responsibility to speed up procedures in order to provide the justice system with Community instruments which will make their work against terrorism and organised crime more effective. The European Commission, and in particular Commissioner Vitorino, must be aware that it can count on the support of Parliament in order to guarantee concerted cooperation and action in tracking down these criminals, because this is the way to put an end to terror. – Mr President, at this stage it is obvious that this parliamentary initiative is born out of a general sense of concern in this House about the slowness, and even paralysis in some areas, in implementing agreements reached within the framework of the Barcelona Conference, almost four years ago. For some reason or other, these agreements have not been implemented. It would certainly be cause for satisfaction, and would be a significant step in the right direction, if this debate were to persuade the Commission to promote a more active attitude to the relaunch of the Euro-Mediterranean association agreement. From reading Parliament’s joint motion for a resolution, which we will probably approve tomorrow, we can certainly observe specific proposals which we can use as a starting point. I am sure that we all agree on the strategic importance, which is crucial for the European Union, of its Mediterranean influence; politically, since, being neighbours, we are required to build a relationship which goes beyond the constitution of a simple free trade area; economically, because I am convinced that opportunities for mutual benefit are being created which we are not taking sufficient advantage of; also, socially, because the problems of the extent of economic inequalities and of the great pressures resulting from migration require coordinated and structural solutions and, of course, we also have to mention the question of security. From this point of view, Parliament is justified in repeating its request that the European Union make a more decisive contribution to the peace process in the Middle East, especially given that the parties in the conflict requested this explicitly during the recent visit to the region by the President of the European Parliament. We are convinced that, in order to be successful, a European Union common foreign and security policy must be based on the concept of balance in order to respond to the sensibilities of all the Member States and, therefore, of all the citizens. – Mr President, I naturally could not start without acknowledging my colleague and friend, Philippe Morillon, who, as Mr Cohn-Bendit has said, cannot be here today as a result of electoral obligations in his country. We in my group are very pleased to congratulate Philippe Morillon because we think he does almost everything well, and I am therefore going to sing the praises of the two rapporteurs who have reached an agreement on a text which has won the almost unanimous support of the parliamentary committee and I hope that there will also be such unanimity in the vote in plenary, because relations between the European Union and the Maghreb and the impetus we are generally trying to give to the Barcelona process undoubtedly require a generalised political will, as we saw with the Valencia Ministerial Summit, since this process will no doubt meet with difficulties along the way. One of the keys to the success of this report has been the consensus reached by the rapporteurs in order to provide the report with a strategic vision of this relationship, thereby preventing – as Mr Cohn-Bendit has just said – getting bogged down in the debate on the internal situation of any one country in the region and I therefore call on the different parliamentary groups to ensure that we maintain this consensus and do not accept the amendments presented on certain specific countries, which the European Parliament will no doubt have to give its opinion on, but there will be other opportunities to do so. Furthermore, in the cases of Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia there are various reports under discussion in other places. Like the rapporteurs, my group believes that this is not the place to begin this debate. On the other hand, I am glad that there have been amendments on three issues I consider to be essential to the report. The first is the commitment to the fight against human trafficking, for which the European Union must provide countries of origin with incentives, using association agreements and its policy of cooperation in order to combat the mafias which promote illegal immigration. Secondly, and in parallel, we must also commit ourselves to the development of those countries and therefore the fact that the European Parliament has not missed the opportunity in this report to promote the creation of a specific financial body for the Euro-Mediterranean area also seems to me to be worthy of praise. Finally, I believe it to be essential that we develop a parliamentary dimension for this Euro-Mediterranean relationship by creating a joint parliamentary assembly similar to the one which exists with the ACP countries. I hope we will be practical and that this formula will be applied in the debate next week in Bari. And here in this House I hope we conform to our duty of mutual loyalty which the rapporteurs have given an example of and that their work therefore receives the support of the whole House. – Madam President, a few hours ago, a Basque journalist, Mr Landaburu, was the victim of an attack. Mr Landaburu is well known for his professional work, his commitment to democracy and his opposition to Francoism. Fortunately, he escaped with his life. Nonetheless, this is a disturbing incident, coming as it does just a few days after elections in the Basque country. Without going into the results, the 80% turnout alone is worth mentioning. It represents a very positive development. Parliament is debating a resolution on freedom of expression this very week. My group will table an amendment on the harassment to which the free and independent media are subjected in the Basque Country. I am confident it will receive the support of the whole House. Madam President, I hope you will agree to send a message of solidarity to Mr Landaburu on Parliament’s behalf. – Mr President, we are clearly facing an unprecedented crisis in the Middle East, which is all the more serious given that there is a risk of it spreading. In the same area we must show our deep concern about the development of events on the border between Israel and Lebanon and call on the influential countries, such as Iran and Syria, despite their obvious indignation, to offer their good services to contain the climate of tension. But in other geographical areas we have also seen angry reactions of solidarity with the humiliations being suffered by the Palestinians, as in the case of the massive demonstration in Morocco. The Israeli Government must understand that it cannot ignore the clear views expressed by the international community. We trust that tomorrow’s summit in Madrid, with the Presidency-in-Office of the European Union, the United States, Russia and the Secretary-General of the United Nations, will serve to confirm the strong will and agreement of the sponsors of the peace process that the last resolutions of the United Nations be complied with. It appears that a partial withdrawal of troops is taking place and this is a step in the right direction, but it is clearly insufficient, especially if what Mr Patten has said today is true. Mr President, I come from a country in which terrorism is the main concern of the citizens and we therefore feel particular solidarity with its victims. But not everything is acceptable in the fight against terrorism; the Rule of Law and international legality must always be respected. From this point of view, it is not acceptable, under any circumstances, to attempt to undermine the structures of the Palestinian National Authority, which is for the moment the legitimate representative of the Palestinian people, however worthy of criticism some of their actions may be. It is true that we must demand that it condemn the attacks: there are no good terrorists and bad terrorists; they are all equally detestable. They must do everything they can to prevent attacks and to arrest their perpetrators and instigators, something which unfortunately has not always happened. In the European Union we must ensure unity of action. A divided Europe is like having no Europe at all. There has been progress between the Foreign Ministers of the Member States which I believe our public opinion considers to be insufficient. I believe there are other avenues; there are instruments in international practices which allow us to express our displeasure towards the policy of a government such as Israel’s. – Mr President, I have the feeling that, recently, in each debate in this Parliament on the Middle East, we basically go over the same ground. The only thing that changes is the state of the crisis, which, unfortunately, is increasingly worse in that region. Since the last resolution we approved in the European Parliament, with the majority support of the parliamentary groups, there have evidently been more terrorist attacks against Israeli civilians. I think there have been five in the last ten days. We have also, however, seen the siege by the Israeli army increasingly close in on the Palestinian population and its institutions. There has been very considerable material and personal damage which I consider to be completely unjustifiable. Within the landscape of violence, which is very controversial both inside and outside the region and also here in the European Parliament, we should be able to agree on certain things. The first is that nothing can justify acts of terrorism, which reduce the chances of peace and produce nothing but pain and indignation. The second is that it seems clear that the Palestinian National Authority does not have the capacity to restrain this wave of violence. The third is that not everything is permissible in the fight against terrorism: when we have the Rule of Law, we must always act within the parameters of the law and with scrupulous respect for human rights. The fourth is that the parties in conflict must understand that no act of violence is going to improve their position. And the fifth is that we cannot stand on the sidelines; on the contrary, the European Union must maintain its political pressure and its permanent presence in the region. I am happy to see the efforts the Council and the Commission are making, but I am even happier to hear that there is a glimmer of light on the horizon. I agree with the Council declaration, which says that our first priority must be to put an end to the suffering of both peoples. And it seems to me completely pointless for us to try to find somebody to blame. On the contrary, I believe that we must seek solutions and, for example, the European Parliament should promote and sponsor an international conference for peace in the Middle East, a second instalment of the one held in Madrid ten years ago, from which Mr Solana could no doubt recount many experiences. Let us hope that amongst all of us we can contribute to peace, because I believe that that is the only truly important thing at the moment. Mr President, on behalf of the MEPs of the PPE-DE Group, I would like to express my gratitude for the countless expressions of solidarity, and thank you personally for your support and company during these times of anguish. We are constantly thinking, naturally, of the victims and their families. Therefore, together with other colleagues, we in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs are taking the initiative of recommending to the European Union that it establish a day in memory of the victims. Plenary decided that it should be 11 March and I am glad that this proposal has been ratified by the Council almost unanimously. Mr Ortuondo did not support it and he will know and explain why. The European institutions’ support for the victims must not just be moral, however, but also material. In order to cover these needs, my group requested the inclusion, for the first time in the 2004 budget, of a line of EUR 1 million for the creation of a pilot programme to support the victims of terrorism and their families. Unfortunately, circumstances demonstrate that more must be done and, without prejudice to the measures to assist victims, which the Council has approved, I would like to express our desire for the financial contribution for the pilot project to help victims to be significantly increased, raising the status of that project to a wide-ranging Community action. That, Mr President, is the commitment of the PPE-DE Group which has been included amongst the political priorities for the next legislature and which provides for the creation of a European fund for compensating the victims of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, following 11 September an action plan to combat terrorism was approved but, nevertheless, on 11 March 2004, some of the measures laid down in it had not been transposed into national legislations. I repeat the request made by several colleagues, because it is essential that the Member States cooperate by quickly incorporating the measures adopted within the framework of the third pillar. It is vitally important to improve security in the prevention sector in Europe. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out, on the basis of my country's experience, that it is not easy to defeat terrorism. It requires persistence and tenacity, but it is an inescapable challenge facing all Europeans if we want to continue to live in free and democratic societies. Nobody is free of this threat and it would be a tragedy if some people tried to evade it by looking the other way. We will overcome it if we face it together, with democratic conviction and with the force of the Rule of Law. Mr President, Secretary-General, as you can tell, the Members of this House have listened with great interest to your information on the result of the Informal Meeting of Defence Ministers in Sintra and its significance in the European integration process in terms of security and defence. Thank you too for sharing with us your telephone conversation with Mr Gil-Robles. However, in terms of foreign policy, I am not sure whether we can advance at the rate needed to meet requirements, as some Members have said this afternoon, without ignoring the problems which you are coming up against. I will give you an example. During the recent trip by the President of the European Parliament to the Middle East, which you mentioned, the various conflicting parties were in agreement about asking for a more active presence from the European Union in the on-going peace process in the region. Do you believe that representatives of Community institutions and Member State governments are acting with the coordination and balance required of those who, like us, hope to mediate between two opposing parties? This House is rather doubtful about this and I am not sure whether you share this doubt. In this respect, as you will know, the European Parliament is working on an initiative to form a common diplomatic corps of the Community. This is clearly not intended to replace the diplomatic services of the Member States but to complement these and possibly improve their coordination. Could you give us an initial reaction to this initiative, without compromising the more detailed reaction which you may be able to give us in the Foreign Affairs Committee? – Ortega y Gasset said that wasted effort leads to melancholy, and I, in order not to become a victim of melancholy, am not going to repeat any of the ideas which have been expressed here. I will simply highlight some of the points with which I agree or disagree. The vice-chairman of my committee said, referring to the history of the euro, that we would have to go back as far as Charlemagne and probably Diocletian, who is the grandfather of the euro. And as a Spaniard I must mention Charles I, who wanted to unify the European currencies on the basis of the Cologne mark. And this leads me to the speech made by an English Conservative Member, who explained what the single currency required in order for the financial markets to have faith in it. What they probably need most is for the United Kingdom to join the single currency. Having said this and to get to the point, the Treaty of Maastricht enshrined the principle of price stability and put in place a fully independent European Central Bank to uphold this principle. But the Treaty of Maastricht did not deal with the institutional consequences of this decision, and for this reason we are talking today about the independence of the Central Bank, the relationship between the Central Bank and other institutions and the unresolved problems. In Amsterdam, the decision was taken not to amend the Treaty of Maastricht in any way, and therefore the problems which were pending are still pending. We are now on the eve of an Intergovernmental Conference which has to deal with the consequences of the decisions which we have taken before. Much has been said here about independence and it is true that, with the Treaty of Maastricht, those of us who believed that price stability was an essential condition for sustained development and that a Central Bank was necessary to control inflation have been vindicated, while those who believed that it was possible to implement any economic or monetary policy provided it produced short-term artificial growth, have been proved wrong. The spokesman of my group has expressed this very well and I will not repeat it. But because we believe in this model, we also believe that we should adopt decisions so that this model does not fall apart. Firstly, we have the problem of transparency, a topic the rapporteur handled with humour and skill. We believe in the independence of the Central Bank, but this Central Bank is much more independent than the Bundesbank or the United States Federal Reserve, because it was not created by an act of Parliament and cannot be modified by one, because it does not exist side by side with a government that has its own economic policy. And this has led some people to talk of a type of platonic aristocracy composed of a series of independent experts to whom decisions regarding monetary policy are entrusted in the belief – probably correct – that money is too serious an issue for politicians to deal with. For this reason, if we do not want this model to fall apart, it is necessary to prioritise transparency measures, and I whole-heartedly subscribe to each and every one of the measures which the rapporteur has mentioned. Secondly, we have the problem of the relationship of the Central Bank with the other European institutions. It has been said here that the priority objective is dealing with inflation, but it is not the only one: we have to think in terms of, amongst other things, an economic focus, responsibility, the international representation of the euro and the monitoring of the banking institutions at a time of significant mergers amongst the financial institutions. –Mr President, by this stage in the debate it seems to me that three things must already be clear to us. Firstly, we know that the European industrial sector is currently experiencing a graver crisis than the one it went through as a result of the 1998 financial crisis. Secondly, we know that the crisis currently afflicting the world economy is far more serious than the one it underwent in 1993, after the Gulf War. This is because for the first time since 1929, the three largest economies are affected, namely the economies of the United States, Europe and Japan. Thirdly, except for Mr Abitbol we all know that nowadays the European economy is far better prepared to cope with such a crisis. As stated earlier, we now have a single currency to protect us from exchange rate crises. We also have a policy to protect us from exorbitant price rises. In addition, we have a Stability Pact to safeguard us against the munificence of public administrations. We do not know for certain but we suspect that this crisis is not demand led, like the post-war crisis. Nor is it a supply driven crisis like the one following the  war. Rather, it is a crisis of confidence. As such, what distinguishes our motion for a resolution from the one put forward by the left is not that they wish to grow while we do not. Obviously, we all want to grow. Nevertheless, some recipes will move us forward whilst others will put us into reverse. We believe that our recipes will move us forward. Allow me to explain the reasons why I think as I do. If this is a crisis of confidence, it would be a fundamental error to relax monetary policy and allow price rises. That would hole consumer confidence below the water line. Secondly, because revising the Stability Pact would amount to indicating that we wish to pass this burden on to future generations, and that is certainly not a confidence booster. Thirdly, if we relax the budgetary policy enshrined in the Stability Pact we shall prevent interest rates from being lowered, as the Americans are doing. A vessel is not assessed according to whether there is a storm around or not, but according to how it weathers a storm. In my view, it is now clear that we should change the way we navigate. The European Central Bank may be driven to reduce interest rates, but it must bear in mind that its ultimate aim is to maintain the dogma of price stability to maintain consumer confidence. It is likely that some governments who have done their homework will be able to allow the automatic stabilisers to operate. They will not need to compensate for fiscal reduction by increasing taxes or reducing expenditure. Unfortunately, governments who have failed to do their homework and behaved like prodigal sons will not find themselves in such a fortunate position. Thirdly, as the Commissioner has said, though previous speakers failed to mention it, it is time for Europe to move ahead and take a determined step forward to get the Lisbon process under way. This process aims to create a modern, innovative and competitive society. Regarding the Tobin tax, the Commissioner was far more convincing in the interview he granted the , when he said it was a useless tool, than in his speech today. Today the Commissioner stated it was one more potential tool. Previously the Commissioner stated it was not possible. Now it begins to appear probable. I endorse what he said to the newspaper but not what he said in the House. –  Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, in a well-known passage in Julius Caesar there is a sentence that reads: ‘The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves that we are underlings.’ I think this quotation is particularly appropriate to this moment, because the seriousness of the problem does not lie so much in the protectionist measures that affect the United States as in the reaction that the European Union must have to these aggressive trade moves, relations in which the steel and clementine issues – referred to by my good friend Mr Westendorp – are not just isolated incidents but have their causes and their consequences. Mention has been made in this House of the ban on imports of hormone-treated meat; the banana war; the export aid declared illegal by a WTO panel; the discussions that took place when the competition policy and certain mergers were implemented by Commissioner Monti; and the aid for certain American products. What worries me most in this love-hate relationship, however, is not so much what has happened but what the future holds, which is that the Republican administration is on the point of succumbing to the temptation of protectionism, as shown right now in two cases: steel, which has been explained enough – and on this I fully endorse what my colleague Mr Atkins has said – and clementines, which have also been mentioned by Mr Westendorp. In the latter case, as this House knows, the United States unilaterally closed its borders on 30 November. The Spanish government and my Parliamentary Group brought these events to the Commission’s attention on 12 December and the Commission then took immediate action. Thank you for this promptness. In addition, on 14 February the Spanish government requested that, in view of the breakdown of the talks that had been entered into, action should be started within the WTO. What I am asking right now is that the same efficacy that people are trying to demonstrate on the matter of steel should also be demonstrated in the case of clementines. This is an even more flagrant case because, while in the first case it is a matter of imposing tariffs, which in my view are abusive and completely illegal, in the second it is about an even more drastic measure: the closing of borders. This matter really does need to be taken to the WTO, but they will only reach a solution to this conflict, in the case of clementines, once several harvests have passed, and I therefore call for immediate compensation and reparations. What we must do is make the United States sit round a negotiating table and work out a solution to the steel and clementines issues, by setting in motion the forceful measures to which my good friend and compatriot Mr Westendorp has referred. . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, if I had to point here and now to two complex issues in the economic field, I would no doubt choose the following: the consolidation of the financial markets and the approximation of the direct taxation regulations – specifically tax on savings – which is under discussion. The debate which we held recently on the bodies for collective investment in transferable securities and the reactions to the report on pension funds, which we will hear shortly, demonstrate the complexity and importance of these issues. These two issues, the liberalisation of the financial services market and taxation, are dealt with in the action plan which is the subject of my report. It is therefore appropriate to thank all the groups for their cooperation and confirm once again to the Commission that it can rely on the active cooperation of the European Parliament in the implementation of this plan, and we will not disregard our duties, but exercise them responsibly. The complexity of the action plan also reflects the ambitious nature of the report presented by the Commission, which contains 43 measures and involves all the sectors in the field (stock exchanges, banks, investment funds, insurance, etc.) and which applies to what has come to be called the ‘new economy’, which is – according to the Lisbon Summit – one of the elements which will help to put an end to unemployment in Europe. What is included in these measures? What is intended through these measures? In my judgement, to sum up, it is the following: the liberalisation of the financial sectors and the updating of the regulations on supervision and control in order to achieve a European financial market which is at least as competitive as the United States financial market. In the explanatory statement, I offer a detailed comparison of the two types of market. In order to achieve these two objectives, the Commission proposes a truly arguable and risky formula: the speeding up of the legal process, which, in turn, would involve three actions. Firstly, a reduction in the standards which need to be included in a regulation or directive, that is to say, which require the participation of this Parliament. Secondly, limiting those standards to the definition of the general approaches and basic principles which must be established in this field, allowing the Commission the possibility of implementing them. Thirdly, granting the Commission broad powers of interpretation. I do not doubt that we have to speed up the process, Commissioner, but this Parliament is not prepared to relinquish the powers which it has taken so long to acquire. Therefore, one of the first tasks which we will have to undertake together is to find a model which will satisfy both objectives. With regard to liberalisation, the first of the tasks which the Commission proposes, the Commission starts from one premise: the consolidation of the single market in financial services requires the removal of the barriers which hinder its operation. We could not agree more. The consequence is that, in order for the market to function, these barriers must be removed. Again we agree, but we know that there are difficulties in this approach resulting from the need to reconcile the objective of liberalisation with the objective of protecting investors. Firstly, the barriers are not identified. Commissioner, it is not sufficient to be able to deduce what they are from the measures proposed by the Commission. Personally, I would have liked to have seen a list of those national measures which, in accordance with the Directive on financial services, are hindering the operation of the market in each country. Secondly, the solution proposed by the Commission still raises difficulties. It is ridiculous that a financial company has to operate while being subject to, and having to have knowledge of, fifteen different legislations, but it is at least as ridiculous that an investor – especially a non-professional investor – should end up needing to contract services, bound by regulations which he or she does not know, from companies whose solvency is unknown, and, in the event of legal dispute, he or she has to take action in a foreign country, with foreign jurisdiction and procedures. Liberalisation must therefore be implemented in parallel with the increase in measures relating to control and taxation. With regard to control measures, we have a new problem: the need to adapt the competence and jurisdictions of authorities which are still national and which, on the whole, apply differing models, to a different world affected by globalisation, international competition and free movement of capital. Finally, Mr President, my personal conviction is that, if we do not want liberalisation to give rise to distortions in competition and the flight of capital to more beneficial climates inside and outside the Union, the correct operation of the market in financial services will not be possible without a certain degree of approximation of the laws which regulate savings. These are the concerns which are raised in my report. These concerns reflect a constructive attitude towards cooperation with the Commission, which I have always considered to be a loyal ally of this Parliament, in the development of an issue which is so very complex. – Commissioner, behind the tide of black oil being suffered today by Galicia and which on other occasions has been suffered by other European coasts, there is always a tide of black money which should be investigated. These black oil slicks and this black money always involve groups with structures much more like mafias than like businesses, made up of companies with ridiculous assets in order to evade responsibilities and covered by insurance which is also ridiculous. These groups are always protected by legislation which is lax from environmental, commercial and fiscal points of view, and Gibraltar is no exception. The port of Gibraltar supplies much more fuel than the port of Algeciras, amongst other things because less harbour duties are paid there and because – as the Commissioner has acknowledged – maritime safety and environmental rules are applied much less rigorously and, thirdly, because less tax is paid. I am not of course referring to special taxes, because any first-year law student knows that the fuel used in maritime transport is exempt from the value added tax on hydrocarbons. The problem is that direct taxes are not paid either, taxes on companies, which also have an impact on prices: 35% in Algeciras and nothing in Gibraltar, as Commissioner Monti knows very well. I would like to ask whether or not there are tax differences in Gibraltar when compared to Algeciras. Bearing in mind that there cannot be differences in relation to special taxes, there can be differences in relation to taxation as a whole, which has an impact on costs, as you will be aware, every time you go out to lunch or dinner and pay the bill. – Mr President, to understand the debate we are holding on the two magnificent reports presented by Mr Trentin and Mr Marinos, we should remember that Maastricht was not just another European Council; it was to all intents and purposes a Council at which two dogmas were enshrined: the dogma of price stability and that of budgetary balance. Lisbon and Barcelona have added a new dogma, a clarification of the doctrine, and point to reform as the only path to salvation, with salvation meaning closing the gap that separates us from the United States. The task of defending the dogma is entrusted to the European Central Bank – the defender of the faith on issues of monetary policy – although, in the fields of budgetary and macroeconomic policy, where the risk of dispersal is greater, it is difficult to know exactly who should play this role. We are currently witnessing a resurrection of misguided and perverse behaviour, and, what is even worse, the emergence of doctrines that seek to justify this kind of perversion; few in the field of monetary policy, but more in the fields of budgetary and macroeconomic policy. Document after document reaffirming these dogmas appear, but they lack coordination and strength. At a time when we are tackling the reform of the Treaties, and now that the Convention is up and running, I would, therefore, say the same thing about these economic guidelines as about the employment guidelines: they should serve to share diagnoses, to establish clear codes of conduct and mechanisms for sanctions or penalties where misguided behaviour occurs. I would also like – and Mrs Randzio-Plath will probably explain this to you – the Commission to continue to be the driving force, to continue to hold the monopoly of initiative and for the principle of qualified majority to be extended, together with that of codecision, to cover most macroeconomic areas. Mr Solbes is no mere altar boy; he is a high priest, and has a fundamental role – that of spearhead, like Saint Vicente Ferrer – in this process of reform. – Mr President, during this debate, certain things have become clear and have enjoyed general consensus. There is a general consensus that the crisis is affecting the European Union’s shipbuilding industry. There is a general consensus that this crisis is due, amongst other things, to unfair competition on the part of the Republic of South Korea, which, according to Mr Caudron, consists of three elements: prices which are lower than costs, aid to shipyards and the maintenance of bankrupt shipyards. I have also stressed that the crisis is serious. Over the last 10 years, Korea has increased its capacity by 180%, while we have reduced ours by 30%. What have we done so far? So far, we have signed an agreement with South Korea which that country has not respected. We have lodged a complaint which is yet to be dealt with. And recently, a twin course of action has been decided upon: firstly, to take the case to the WTO and, secondly, to establish the defensive, selective and temporary mechanism which we are discussing. It is as if Commissioner Bolkestein, faced with the non-compliances of Korea, had used the words of Cicero to Catiline: "[How long now, Catiline, will you abuse our patience]. I would remind those Members, almost all from the North, who have spoken against this decision, of a military aphorism which says that ‘the mission of the artillery is to bomb the infantry, preferably that of the enemy’. In this case, the weapons of the North are aiming at European positions, bringing to mind in many cases the situation of Japan or that of other industries. What does the European Parliament want to do? Support Mr Bolkestein whole-heartedly and ask him to be more generous. To be more generous in relation to the field of protection: that is to say, as Mr Ortuondo has stressed, that it also be extended to those vessels which suffer from unfair competition, those which transport gases, car ferries, etc. and that he be less stingy in terms of the date of application. That he extend this temporary and defensive measure until 2003. May God bless you if you do this, Mr Bolkestein. – Mr President, my question is supplementary to that of Mr Bayona. I agree entirely with his arguments and I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he would be prepared to adopt the following five measures: firstly, to show the utmost commitment to anti-dumping cases, bearing in mind that Chinese companies are subjected to much less stringent parameters and levels than European ones in the fields of employment and the environment; secondly, whether he is also prepared to show that utmost commitment to anti-fraud measures, bearing in mind that, at this moment, it is possible to import without a mark, in any European port, Chinese goods which have a label in that port; thirdly, to strengthen research and development so that European companies can face up to Chinese competition; fourthly, to promote the entry and establishment of European companies in China, in view of the fact that, as the Commissioner knows, despite the fact that there has been a tariff restriction, entry tariffs in China depend on the port and the importer; and finally, whether he is prepared to set up an observatory to provide better knowledge of the practices which discriminate against and harm European industry. . – Mr President, with regard to my report which has just been mentioned, I would ask, since it has been adopted unanimously, both by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and since it deals purely with a change of legal base which Parliament – in the form of a unanimouse decision by the two committees – has not agreed to, I would ask that it be voted on tomorrow without the need for a debate this evening, a debate in which I will probably be the only speaker. I would therefore ask that it be removed from the agenda and that we proceed directly to the vote tomorrow in order to save time, both for the President and for all the other Members. – Mr President, I will not waste part of the one minute I am allowed to convince Members of the extremely grave consequences of the sequence of natural disasters which have taken place in Central America. However, I will use part of my speaking time to say that this has had short-term consequences. In brief: one and a half million people are suffering from hunger in the region, not to mention the long-term consequences for sustainable development and the climate. So far the European institutions have reacted by trying to alleviate the short-term consequences: with emergency aid and with deliveries of food, which have gone some way to alleviating the hunger in the region. So far we have been incapable of responding to the long-term needs or shortages. This resolution asks the Commission firstly to take account of these needs when drawing up the 2002 budget. Secondly, that it implement actions which will serve to accelerate and promote a sustainable development policy in the field of agricultural development, which will serve to prevent drought and the long-term consequences which I mentioned previously. Thirdly, I refer to section 4, relating to a policy of cooperation with the region in the long term, which would help to meet the needs which I stressed before. – Madam President, I am not absolutely sure whether this is a point of order, but it is a reply to a previous intervention. This Parliament knows that the Spanish Constitution – probably because it was created following a dictatorship – is the most respectful constitution in terms of fundamental rights and public freedoms in the whole of the European Union. This Parliament also knows that the person who spoke previously is an example of this because he has been able to take part in free elections, in which he has been able to express his opinions. This Parliament also knows that when there have been violations of legislation in the fight against crime, those violations have been tried by ordinary courts with every judicial guarantee and there are currently people belonging to the State apparatus in prison as a result of those violations. I cannot say the same about many colleagues from my party, from the Socialist Group or from other parties who, because they disagree with the opinions that have been expressed, have purely and simply been murdered. And there are now around a thousand of them. –  Madam President, the regulation of the stock market must be able to reconcile two objectives: firstly, to give European companies more opportunities to obtain money more cheaply, and secondly, to protect the investor. I believe that this reconciliation has been achieved in the report on market abuse and also thanks to several compromise amendments in the Directive regulating the audit or control of financial conglomerates. Unfortunately, there are three attacks on the principle of legal protection in Mr Huhne’s report: firstly, an attack on the definition of the public offer; secondly, an attack on the choice of the authority designated to approve prospectuses; and thirdly, an attack on the obligation to inform small and medium-sized companies. I will deal with each issue in turn. With regard to the definition of the public offer, the rapporteur proposes that this information should be provided to the investor at the final stage, immediately before the contract is signed. In my opinion, this information must be available and made public from the moment that money is requested from the investor and it is clear that my formula, which is in line with that of the Commission, does not exclude this investigation from analysing investment possibilities with professional investors. Secondly, with regard to the proposed free election of the supervisory authority, I, who in a former reincarnation was a tax inspector, do not feel it would be a good idea for contributors to elect their tax inspector, nor does it seem a good idea for the financial institutions to elect the ultimate supervisory body. I believe that the formula proposed by the Commission is more coherent and gives greater respect to the previous Directives, and shows a greater degree of common sense – that it is the national authority which has the best knowledge of the applicable national law, of which it should inform the investor – and that, above all, it presents the least risks, because the absolute freedom formula, in my opinion, opens up a competition, a race between the supervisory authorities to make things too easy and attract investors who would be a threat to legal certainty. I cannot agree with the rapporteur on the last point with regard to the exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises, even more so when we bear in mind that small and medium-sized enterprises have a capital of ESP 350 million, which would mean the exclusion of 80% of companies quoted on the stock exchange. I am sorry that I am not able to finish; I will conclude this dialogue with Mr Huhne, now by letter and I hope, later on, orally. –  Madam President, they say that  and I should, therefore, start my speech by congratulating Commissioner Bolkestein, on the skill with which he was able, this morning, to resolve the conflict that Parliament, the Council and the Commission have been facing for such a long time, preventing us from progressing towards a single market in financial services. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Kauppi on her report, which has managed, as has already been said, to achieve the support of most of the political groups in this House. I would like to make just a few specific observations. In a recent appearance to prepare for the monetary dialogue with Wim Duisenberg, the President of the European Central Bank, we were given a report which demonstrated that the introduction of the euro will make price differences between the various countries in Europe more evident, as a result, amongst other things, of differences in taxation. This leads us to call for the harmonisation of VAT and for it to be applied at source, as Mr Pérez Royo suggested, but, until this happens, it is clear that these price differences will encourage fraud. For this reason, ‘more Europe’, or more decentralised cooperation within the European Union, is always welcome. I was a tax inspector and I know how the obligation to refer to higher public authorities can paralyse an idea. We need to eliminate formal requirements. I see no need for a translation: nobody would ask for a translation of information that would permit the arrest of Jack the Ripper and I do not see why things should be different in the field of taxation. With regard to the legal base, I disagree with the last speaker but I agree with Mr Pérez Royo, given that the difference between substantive law, which characterises the essential elements of the tax system, and formal law, which was set up in order to guarantee that these obligations are met, is well known. Whereas the rules of substantive law have their base in Article 93 and, therefore, unanimity, those concerning formal law, administrative law and application law have their base in Article 95 because, amongst other things, this allows us to avoid unanimity and also paves the way, as we saw this morning in the field of financial services, for what the Spanish Presidency calls ‘more Europe’. , . – Mr President, if it is a trait of the high-born to be grateful, I would like to begin by saying to Mr Bullmann that I, being of the extreme centre, am extremely happy to have reached an agreement, a compromise, with him. Secondly, as a generic request from both the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I would now ask the Council to involve the European Parliament in both the definition and the monitoring of the strategies established in Barcelona. As Pablo Neruda said, the work we have to do is like the old wine of my country; it is not produced by one man but by many, and not from one plant but from many. My third point: the areas of agreement that have been expressed here. I agree with the President-in-Office of the Council that it is absolutely essential to maintain intact and unharmed the dogmas of price stability and budgetary austerity, both for the large countries and for the small ones. We in this Parliament well know how monetary delights and budgetary frugality end: like days of wine and roses. They lead to nothing more than a headache the next morning. With regard to structural reforms which increase competition, those benches have shown a certain reticence, certain reservations. In the field of the liberalisation of strategic sectors such as transport, electricity, gas, telecommunications or financial services we must not move backwards, even in order to gain momentum. Fourthly, I also agree with other speakers that we must attach importance to strategic development factors: lifelong education and support for small businesses. I would say a final word to Mrs Jackson. The National Hydrological Plan is not, as the amendment says, an example of unsustainable development. It is a fine example of sustainable development, because it is a question of taking water from where there is a surplus of it to those places where some days we pray for rain and on others we are moving around in boats following a storm. As she has pointed out very correctly, it is a parliamentary decision by a legitimate parliament following a broad discussion and with the almost unanimous support of the National Water Council, in which all the Autonomous Communities, including the Socialist ones, are represented. Somebody has been selling false currency in this Parliament. I would ask you to bring them to account and that this false currency be exchanged for a good one, for a genuine one, like the one we now have in the European Union. –  Mr President, as a Spanish Member of this Parliament, as a Valencian and as a member of the European People’s Party, I shall not take too long to say that I consider the Valencia Summit to have been a success. I do wish to reiterate what other Members of this House have said, however. I consider it to be a success that the summit took place in such difficult circumstances; it is a success that it was attended by twenty-five of the twenty-seven Members who were invited; it was a success that a joint action plan was agreed on by consensus and I consider it to have been a success that a conclusion was reached – explained better than I can by Commissioner Patten: in order to speed up the Barcelona Process, the peace process in the Middle East must be speeded up but there will be no stable peace in the Middle East unless it is achieved within a framework of stability, development and cooperation such as the framework put forward in Barcelona. Having said this, I am not going to repeat any of the solutions that have been put forward for the Middle East. There clearly needs to be an end to the killings that we have condemned here so rigorously and with such sadness, and political dialogue must be re-established on the basis of international law. The President-in-Office of the Council has referred to all the statements detailing how this needs to be undertaken, from the Madrid Conference or the Oslo process to the United Nations resolutions. What is hard to explain to our voters, to the media or to our visitors is how the European Union, which is Israel’s largest trading partner and the main donor to the Palestinian Authority, is unable to do any more than it is currently doing. I agree that it was very positive that our positions were reaffirmed in Valencia. I also agree that our mission to the Middle East is a success, particularly because it is repairing the damage suffered by the previous mission but, I repeat, we will have to explain to our voters what we are going to do, how we are going to do it and when we are going to do it, as long as it is soon. With regard to the Barcelona Process, the action plan starts by acknowledging that what is needed is literally ‘momentum’, which simply means accepting that the 1995 Barcelona Process has made slower progress than originally expected and, of course, much slower progress than the needs we have been discussing here require, when we talk about the Mediterranean as a strategic border, when we talk about the 45 million new jobs that must be created on the southern shore of the Mediterranean in order to maintain current levels of unemployment. I repeat that in Valencia it was acknowledged that there is a gap – actually an enormous distance – between what we want to achieve, that is, what is needed, and what we are going to do. I welcome the fact that the fight against terrorism and the fight against drugs were discussed. I welcome the fact that the idea of establishing a free trade area by 2010 was reaffirmed, but I wish to emphasise that in order for there to be a free trade area, there must be goods to trade. We therefore need to be more effective and more flexible in our approach to the MEDA Plan, in economic cooperation, and to be less hesitant about setting up the Euro-Mediterranean Bank. Does this Parliament want such a bank? Do our partners in the southern Mediterranean want this? Do certain members of the Council? The Spanish Presidency wants it, of course; let us also convince everyone else that it is much needed. To conclude, Mr President, I wish to emphasise that a foundation working for multicultural dialogue is absolutely crucial. It is impossible, however, to create a foundation without financial support. Without financial support there can be neither a foundation nor spiritual exercises, however modest they may be. – Mr President, Commissioner, I will get straight to the point and enter directly into the debate on the location clause, which is the main focus of this debate in this House. I perfectly understand the Commission’s objective in proposing the removal of this clause. The Commission believes that the removal of this clause would increase competition between dealers and that would lead to a reduction in prices. Nothing could be more laudable for the Group of the European Peoples’ Party than the defence of freedom and consumers. The proposal as presented by the Commissioner, however, raises certain questions which should be cleared up before accepting a drastic solution. It seems clear that the current level between brands is sufficient. If the location clause is removed suddenly, do we not run the risk of reducing manufacturers’ capacity to organise their distribution network? Is there not a risk of the larger manufacturers swallowing up the smaller ones, thereby reducing competition? Secondly, the Commission’s proposals, many of which are interesting, contain sufficient elements to promote competition within a single brand. Would it not be prudent to see how it works before we use a sledgehammer to crack a nut? Thirdly, is it not clear that investments made by dealers are in danger, and the smaller the dealer the greater the danger is, which would increase the market share for the large dealers, thereby working against the objectives of the Commission? Therefore, Commissioner, since there have been no clear replies, I believe that the rapporteur’s proposal is a prudent one, there are times for valour and there are times for prudence and, in this case, it is clearly necessary to wait and see how the new elements to promote competition introduced by the proposal work before going ahead with the removal of the location clause. – Mr President, I am pleased that this debate is taking place here today because the Parliament must be permanently attentive to the citizen’s needs and be the pioneer in the construction of Europe and, in order to fulfil this double objective, the development of the European social dimension seems fundamental. The resolution which were are now debating is a mixture of styles, of individual contributions, whose result is an extraordinarily unequal combination. But some of the reflections, especially those expressed by Mr Pronk, seem to me to be particularly important. But, allow me to say that those of us who believe that only competitive companies can create employment, and that only by creating employment can the European social model be preserved, have emerged the winners. And those who believe, by means of public intervention, in a type of arbitrary inventiveness, have emerged the losers. But, having said that, those of us who believe in the market and belong to this side of the Hemicycle, far from the autarchic temptations of some parts of this Assembly, believe that the principle of social compensation must counter-balance the principle of a functioning market. Therefore, I am especially pleased that our resolution opts for social dialogue as a method for resolving conflicts. I am also pleased that it opts to implement the Social Charter, the Social Protocol, by means of specific measures. I am also glad that it refers to the need to review this fiscal set-up, which tempts companies to relocate to areas where there is a more favourable tax system. And finally, I am happy that employment should be a fundamental principle, a principle which underpins all policies, especially with regard to public aid. However, to those on the other side of the House, I would say that those people who tried to throw the textile machines into the rivers of Manchester, in order to save jobs, were wrong because we live in an era which is infinitely better than the one which they wanted to preserve. – Mr President, the previous speaker pointed out that this report tries to reconcile the irreconcilable. I think he is right up to a point, which makes the rapporteur’s work all the more remarkable and meritorious and I thank him. Furthermore it highlights the difficult nature of the task which we will have to face. A few months ago, in this Parliament, we examined a report on the Multilateral Agreement on Investment which, in a very dramatic way, began by saying that we were discussing a world economic constitution. If that was true then, it is even more true now, given that we are going to discuss issues such as agriculture, services, intellectual property and direct investment. It is difficult when, as the rapporteur said at the beginning, it is not a question of simply opting for free trade, but rather opting for a just form of free trade. And so that this free trade may be a just free trade, it is clear that we have to reconcile trading practices with the rules regarding the environment, workers’ rights, the European agricultural model and consumer protection. To sum up, we are going to discuss practically everything, every sector and every Community policy. Therefore the important issue at the moment is the method which we must follow. And in this report the rapporteur – and I am with him – opts for a Commission which will act as a major player. We call on all the States to back the Commission, we call on the Commission to take account of the sensibilities and needs of the candidate and associated countries and we call on the Intergovernmental Conference to broaden the negotiating capacities of the Commission. But, since love is rewarded by love, all of this will only be possible if the Commission responds to Parliament by treating it as a partner and accomplice in the negotiating strategy with regard to the recommendations of the various sectors, the negotiating guidelines and the approval of the Treaties. Only in this way, Commissioner, will we be able to work together over these three years because – believe me – all of us have tables covered in documents and requests from the various sectors involved and we will only be able to satisfy them if the Commission is able to satisfy our demands. As Tenorio said “If you do it like that, may God reward you or, if not, may he punish you”. –  Mr President, before beginning my two minutes of speaking time, and as a point of order, I would like to point out to the Presidency that there is an error in the transcribed text. In paragraph four of the Resolution there is a phrase missing, literally ‘which should be compatible with European Union doctrine on cooperation, respect for human rights and democracy’. This was the text agreed by all of the groups according to a document given to the Presidency by the spokesperson for international relations from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. And now, Mr President, I would like to begin my allotted intervention by pointing out that this resolution aims to tackle the problem of the devastation caused by hurricane Michelle, which has particularly affected three countries: Honduras, Nicaragua and Cuba. The effects of this disaster are exacerbated by the fact that the three countries in question have levels of poverty that I personally would call extreme. Given that a simple reference was made in the resolution to our recent visit to Nicaragua, in order to provide illustrative evidence of the situation in this country, I would like to point out that Nicaragua is currently the poorest country in Continental America. Fifty per cent of Nicaraguans live in conditions of poverty and 17% in conditions of extreme poverty – to be poor in Nicaragua means living on USD 1 per month. In macroeconomic terms, Nicaragua has foreign debt of USD 6 500 million, exports less than a third of what it imports and the country balances its payments and survives, ultimately, thanks to international aid and emigrants' remittances, particularly from the United States and Costa Rica. With regard to the situation in Cuba, on another delegation visit, I think we all will agree that the situation of that country is extremely gloomy. Cuba is currently surviving mostly thanks to emigrants' remittances and, secondly, tourism, which represent more than all other Cuban exports put together. This being the case, what the resolution is aiming to achieve is, first and foremost, to show solidarity with the communities affected and with the human victims of the consequences of this hurricane. Secondly, and I would like the Commissioner to take special note of this, I would like to express Parliament’s satisfaction with the actions of the Humanitarian Aid Office. Thirdly, I would ask that, in the case of Honduras and Nicaragua, estimated damages be considered within the framework of the Regional Programme for the Reconstruction of Central America. Given that we are talking about Nicaragua, there is an amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, and I would like to address the rapporteur here, which says that, as there have been misappropriations of funds – and we are referring to European funds here – certain action has to be taken. I personally took the trouble to call the Commission delegation in Nicaragua. I have a fax here in which they tell me that in no case has there been any proof, nor has there been any investigation into these funds, therefore it cannot be confirmed that there have been misappropriations. During the recent visit we discovered that these accusations had occurred at the same time as an election campaign, but there was no judicial decision in this respect. For this reason, it seems extremely reckless to me to make statements on this subject. Mr President, with regard to Cuba, the phrase we have added can be interpreted by the various political parties as they see fit. But when we say that we want a cooperation agreement to be reached in line with European doctrine, we mean to agree with what was stated in the Newens report and in the common position; that we will only reach a cooperation agreement when the Cuban regime makes significant progress in the improvement of respect for human rights and progresses towards a pluralist democracy. This is the doctrine of the European Union, which is implicitly expressed in this resolution. – Mr President, I would like to join in thanking the rapporteur, Mr Karas, which I think is only fair. I have been a privileged witness of the ferocity of the bulls he has had to fight: the Council – which is very divided – the Commission, the other groups in this House and in particular my own group, which has given him more headaches than all the other groups together. Secondly, I would like to stress the generosity of the European Parliament. It is true that we have managed to have many of the amendments we presented at first reading accepted, but it is also the case that we have sacrificed legitimate, well-founded and well-argued aspirations in order to achieve a text which can be accepted by the Council. We have sacrificed these positions, however, because we have always been aware that this directive was essential, at least for three reasons. Firstly, to make the freedoms enshrined in the Treaty more effective and more real, particularly the mobility of workers. Secondly, in order to supplement the public social security systems at a time – as has been said - when the challenge we must face in the coming years is a demographic one, the ageing of the population and the sustainability of public finances. These professional systems of a supplementary nature – I would insist on this aspect – will serve to maintain the future incomes of workers. This is a social approach which my group applauds. And, thirdly, because it will help to increase European saving, to increase the depth of the European financial market, which is the global objective of the financial services action plan. That saving will allow us to fund – and this ties in with what I said in the previous report – the investments we need in order to grow, in order to increase our employment and our productivity. Mr Karas has highlighted many of the amendments which have enriched the original text of the Commission and the Council. I would like to stress the increase in transparency due to the information obligations required of the providers of these services, of the people who provide and guarantee these pensions, both with regard to the authorities and the participants. Secondly, and contrary to what somebody said from the benches of the left, because it incorporates social orientations which are very dear to those of us who advocate a social market economy. And thirdly because it increases the coordination of the supervision authorities and promotes the possibility of cross-border activities. I would like to end, Commissioner, by stressing some of the deficiencies pointed out by the rapporteur. It will be necessary to make progress on tax harmonisation – I pointed this out in the previous report – if we want these cross-border activities to genuinely be expanded and freedom of choice to be real. –  Mr President, to tie in with the rapporteur’s closing words, I wish to thank everyone who has taken part and especially the Commission staff for their help. The issue of concern to us, however technical it is, is of extraordinary political and social importance because it is widely known that undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS), including pension funds, are currently the preferred form of saving for the majority of European citizens. The first problem we came up against was that there were two directives: one called a ‘product’ directive, which allowed these bodies to invest in products from which they were hitherto denied access, and another, which proposed substantially increasing capital requirements. Both the Commission and Parliament were tempted to immediately adopt the so-called ‘product’ directive and delay the adoption of the so-called ‘management’ directive. This Parliament warned that it was dangerous to allow these undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities – which, I repeat monopolise the market in public savings – to move into deeper waters without any guarantee that their ships were prepared for what would be a more daring day’s sailing than they had hitherto embarked on. As the rapporteur indicated, the purpose of the first discussion – and I am limiting myself here to the product directive – was to decide what they could invest in. He referred to non-standardised derivatives, index funds, the cascade effect, etc., which are technical issues that I will not go into now. What I do want to say is that, in my group’s opinion, a balance has been achieved between giving greater opportunities to management bodies and, therefore, greater opportunities to investors and the protection, the caution, that must be present in any discussion of such delicate matters. Parliament wanted to send a message to the Commission. As on previous occasions, Parliament wants to be flexible on the adoption of the directives of the financial services action plan. We want this directive to be adopted rapidly and we do not, therefore, want to have to go to conciliation. We have therefore, limited our amendments to one – which I personally am not in favour of, although I will be voting for it – which consists of creating a ‘grandfather’ clause, in other words, creating a transitional period so that currently existing bodies have additional time in which to raise their capital. Mention has been made of another amendment by Mr Goebbels, which he is going to withdraw, but I think it is extraordinarily intelligent and is the second message that Parliament is sending to the Commission. The first, I repeat, is not tabling amendments that cannot be accepted by the Council and the Commission. The second, even though we are not involved in a Lamfalussy procedure, is to warn that we will always have to be flexible. We will always show willingness to be flexible on the legislative procedure, but we are not prepared to concede the codecision powers that Parliament has taken such a long time to gain. –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Miguel Ángel Martínez and myself, who have both been in politics since 1977, have discussed these matters a great deal and I would like to make one or two comments. Firstly, what Cuba wants – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Pérez Roque, stated to the parliamentary delegation – is for the European Union to guarantee that if Cuba applies for entry into the ACP there will be no opposition on their part. Before they make their request to join they want a formal guarantee it will not be opposed. Secondly, Mr Martínez and myself have different perceptions of Cuba. I met members of the opposition, dissidents, who literally told me that those who are not part of the regime simply do not exist. Secondly, there was an amicable debate on the ambassadors’ assessments – at least in the meeting I attended – but I would like to know how the opinion of all the governments, with the slight reservation of Germany, can be contrary to the opinion which, according to Mr Martínez, was expressed by the ambassadors: these are keen to establish unconditional dialogue, whilst the governments are keen to uphold the common position and have been since as far back as December. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he agrees with me in his assessment that the Cuban government has a long way to go before it can fulfil the obligations of the democratic clause, both for an Association Agreement and to establish other links with the European Union, and I would like him to expand on the subject of economic freedom, fundamental rights – which was previously called formal democracy, that we now all share – and above all political pluralism, which are the prerequisites of the common position. – Madam President, I have little to add to what Mrs Torres Marques has said. I would highlight that the Commission’s proposal seems to me to be a good one. My good friend Mrs Torres Marques has stressed this effectively. I believe that it fulfils four of the fundamental objectives relating to simplifying administrative obligations. As she has said, the harmonisation of the requirements for information to appear on the invoice will mean that traders operating within the single market will be subject to a single legislation, while until now they have had to know, comply with and apply fifteen different legislations. Secondly – and the rapporteur has also highlighted this – this simplification will also mean significant savings for companies. It is true – I agree with the rapporteur and the Commission in this respect – that the issuing of a traditional invoice is three times as expensive as the issuing of an electronic invoice. This innovation is therefore welcome. Thirdly, I also agree that this proposal will help to develop, strengthen and promote the electronic provision of services, which is one of the great objectives which the European Union established at Lisbon and which will be discussed tomorrow in Gothenburg. Fourthly, I believe that this proposal, while achieving these objectives from the point of view of the simplification of formal obligations, savings in the financial costs to companies and the strengthening of electronic services, in no way jeopardises the administrative control necessary for the application of the tax. I will not talk about some of the amendments which Mrs Torres Marques has mentioned, such as the electronic digital signature, because the author of the amendment is Mrs Kauppi, who will explain it much better than me. However, I would like to say that the amendment which we are presenting in relation to the sequence has not in my view been properly understood by the rapporteur. The Commission proposed that the invoice should have a single number. What we are saying is that it should not necessarily be sequential, and there could be different sequences or collections by client or by country, in order to favour identification from the point of view of the company and, probably, also from the point of view of the administration. I also share the rapporteur’s regret, which this Parliament makes abundantly clear every time valued added tax is discussed: the Commission lacks audacity when it comes to progressing towards a definitive system for value added tax, which would simplify it enormously and which, at a time of so many problems for European integration, would provide clear and firm backing and a clear message that we are prepared to turn value added tax into what its founder, Maurice Lauré, called the first European tax. This is a modest step, since it only involves administrative obligations, formal obligations, that is, certain secondary aspects of the tax, but it seems to me a step in the right direction. My Group will support it. I will end by saying that Mrs Torres Marques’s report is a good one. The preliminary report was also a good one. And that report has been greatly improved since passing through committee thanks to the generosity of the rapporteur, who has accepted a good number of amendments. The procedure we are now undergoing is a consultation procedure, it is modest, but this committee – given the number of amendments it has presented – has worked very seriously on drafting this report. I hope the Commission will respond generously to the serious work of the European Parliament’s committee. Mr President, the Council’s most bitter critics were those who attended late at night and turned out at the demonstration in the morning. So far, the worst they have been able to say is that Barcelona was a small step. I would add that it was a small step in the right direction. By way of clarification I should say that I think it is a step in the right direction because now we are no longer discussing the issues which concerned us five days ago. Mr Barón is the exception to the rule. We are not discussing the dogma of price stability any more, nor are we arguing for or against the Stability Pact. We have also ceased to debate the need or urgency of speeding up structural reform to attain three aims, namely a functioning market, the principle of social compensation, and sustainable development. It is undiluted Müller-Armak. I should like to make two brief points on economic reform. In the wake of Barcelona it is now crystal-clear that as far as energy and gas are concerned, liberalisation does not necessarily equate to privatisation. Those wishing to retain public concerns are free to do so. It is also evident that liberalisation must take account of the basic principles of general interest services such as equal access, continuity of supply and consumer safety. Speeches made from other benches calling for liberalisation to be postponed further therefore amount to excuses from a bad payer. I simply cannot understand why it is supposed to be good for industry to be able to chose a supplier whilst denying household consumers that same choice. I only have one message for the Council regarding financial markets. Parliament has shown considerable generosity in approving the von Wogau report. It has also shown considerable efficiency in approving the relevant measures. I can take it on myself to provide an assurance that if the Council forwards us the eight modifications it proposed regarding financial services by express post, the relevant reply will also be dispatched by express post. Please send us the common positions. I should like to make one last comment on the subject of the institutional structures needed for these reforms: Seville. The Council and the Commission would do well to consider what action is required at institutional level to ensure that the outstanding reforms are carried out. What is the role of Parliament and of the Council in the legislative procedure (Article 202)? Who actually controls economic policies? To put it another way, are we heading towards an economic government or not? Who represents the euro on the international stage? Should we retain unanimity for fiscal issues when we number 27, so the smallest of all can veto any decision? These are the issues the Council has outstanding. I congratulate the Presidency-in-Office on the success of Barcelona. Congratulations are also due to the Spanish Government. The latter would have been blamed for not providing enough police if unrest had taken place. Since there were enough police officers on duty, the authorities are being criticised instead for providing too many. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, votes are what counts, not shouting in the streets, and the signs are encouraging. . – Mr President, I would like to welcome the Commissioner to this sitting. I would like to start by thanking all the parliamentary groups which have cooperated closely so that we can offer Parliament a clear text today, which focuses on action and not on words, on speeding up and not slowing down the strategy agreed in Lisbon, in Gothenburg and in Stockholm, to restore confidence to the European markets and thereby speed up our growth with a very clear objective, highlighted in the first paragraph: increasing job creation, which is a necessary condition if we are to compensate for ageing and maintain our social model. Secondly, I would like to point out three strict limits to demand policies, which are included in the policy in the short term: to maintain macroeconomic stability, to maintain European competitiveness in an increasingly globalised world and to reduce public debt, in order to free up resources which must be destined towards investment and to create resources for future social needs. The second of these key ideas is to increase coordination; we therefore welcome the strategies aimed at jointly examining the economic guidelines and the employment guidelines, but we would also like to integrate budgetary policies and supply policies, which remain in national hands, in order to create a framework which could provide a basis for the discussion of budgets, both European Union and national budgets. In the field of monetary policy, which is the next section, the report stresses that the European Central Bank must closely follow the evolution of prices, in view of the underlying inflation in the services sector. But it says something further. It says that everybody else, particularly the national governments, must do their duties: they must maintain the evolution of salaries linked to productivity, introduce measures in terms of the transparency of prices and reform their structures in order to increase productivity, in order to give the European Central Bank a margin, an additional margin, in the event that it is considered necessary to reduce interest rates, particularly if we want to bring interest rates into line with European export needs. In the field of budgetary policy, the message seems to me to be equally clear. This Parliament is stressing its commitment, which it has always maintained, to the Stability and Growth Pact. Secondly, it welcomes the Commission’s efforts to interpret this pact, to assess the budgetary situation of each Member State, taking account of volume of debt and quality of expenditure, particularly when it is investment expenditure, which is coherent with the Lisbon, Stockholm and Gothenburg strategies. Thirdly, it regrets the lack of application, the lack of diligence of those prodigal governments which, while running the risk of excessive deficit, do not appear to want to make any effort to reduce structural deficits. And finally, as an express appeal to the Commission, it urges it to play a more vigilant role at times of boom in order to ride out the storm at a later date. With regard to structural reform policy, we stress that the lack of investment is key, and is the most definitive explanation of our lagging behind the United States, particularly investment in new technologies. We therefore call for the establishment in the economic guidelines of quantified objectives in the field of public and private investment and for the promotion of investment by the private sector in these technologies, essentially by means of the tax deductions, linked to obtaining profits rather than subsidies, since we have no very clear idea of which activities those subsidies are used for. We call for a new industrial policy, because people cannot live on services alone, as well as an effort in the field of renewable energies, on which I do not need to insist given the international climate. In the field of small and medium-sized businesses, the Commission is urged to continue with the objectives of the Feira Charter, to facilitate their creation within 24 hours by means of new technologies, to advocate a postponement of taxes during the early years of operation, to simplify their operation, particularly in an administrative sense, and to exercise strict vigilance in the field of funding in the Basilea II negotiations, to stress the role of the European Investment Fund and to establish a network of guarantees which allows them access to the markets. In the field of the liberalisation of the markets, transposition and therefore stressing the penalty mechanisms for States which do not comply, increasing competition in the privatised sectors, liberalising energy networks and particularly their connection. On financial markets we are essentially in agreement. We welcome the efforts in the field of taxation and we would ask for further effort in order to achieve VAT at source and a consolidated basis in taxes on companies and we ask for stricter representation of the euro in international fora and a denomination of energies in this currency. Thank you very much, Commissioner, I hope that the message is clear and that it is well received. Thanks once again to all the groups and the President for their patience. –  Madam President, it falls to me to convey to the House and to the Council the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on Mrs Tumpel-Gugerell’s appointment. I speak on behalf of the chairman of the committee, Mrs Randzio-Plath. I should first like to say that the vote of acceptance, the vote in favour of the appointment of Mrs Tumpel-Gugerell, was carried unanimously within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I should also like to say that this was no accident. It was because all the members of the committee agreed that the candidate has the requisite training and ability to carry out the task before her. Secondly, I should like to say that the committee was fully satisfied with the written and oral answers provided by the candidate. We were particularly impressed with her pertinent responses to questions on three key issues. I am now speaking on behalf of my group. We noted that the candidate is a firm believer in the dogma of price stability formally proclaimed at Maastricht. We found too that the candidate believes equally firmly that it is for the European Central Bank, acting quite independently, to guarantee the dogma of price stability without prejudice to its duty to work towards the other objectives contained in the Treaty. Further, we were delighted to find that the candidate is fully prepared to cooperate with the European Parliament. This will be to the advantage of the European Central Bank. It will render its positions clearer and more public. It will also serve to boost the image of this House. I would remind you that we have been discussing the broad economic guidelines and that all the speakers emphasised the willingness and ability of Parliament to work loyally towards strengthening an economy that is currently in poor shape. Indeed, the European Union as a whole will benefit and Parliament will help to bring the Bank closer to the citizens. The latter will be better able to understand the Bank’s objectives, methods and actions. I should also like to underline, further to this morning’s debate, that Parliament is fully prepared to cooperate with the European Central Bank in its task of maintaining price stability. This stability is one of the main achievements of the latest stage of the European economy launched at Maastricht. I trust this morning’s vote will provide confirmation of this. With regard to the economic guidelines we would like to point out that it is for the Member States to strive to reduce inflationary pressure in sectors where it occurs, notably in the service sector. It is also for the Member States to create the conditions in which the social partners can initiate a wages policy. This should be a policy of collective negotiation, keeping nominal wages in line with inflation and not allowing them to rise above it. It would also keep real salaries in line with productivity. We are all tasked with ensuring price stability, even though the European Central Bank is specifically charged to do so and will take the lead. In the context of the broad economic guidelines we also underlined the need for coherence and consistency across all economic policies if we are to pull ourselves up out of the hole we are in. Monetary policy is handled by the independent Central Bank. Budgetary policies must be consistent across the Union too. They remain within national competence, but are governed and bound by the Stability and Growth Pact. They are also subject to monitoring by Union institutions, including Parliament. These assess stability and convergence programmes, on which we have made recommendations. I referred earlier to wages policies. They also need to be in line, though they are part of national competence. All short-term supply policies required to deal with the economic crisis should be in line too. They must not be allowed to disturb the economic balance. That must be protected at all times by the European Central Bank as regards monetary issues. The Union’s institutions and the Member States will ensure coherence with the Stability Pact is maintained. I imagine Mr Friedrich will mention this too, but we are pleased to note that the candidate is to be appointed for an eight-year term. This should be time enough to see the programme through. We are pleased to note too that the candidate may not stand for re-election, so her independence is guaranteed. On behalf of the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs I strongly recommend the Council to appoint the candidate and offer her our congratulations. – Mr President, I will comment briefly on five points. Firstly, at this point in the debate the facts have been well established. The history of the tempestuous relations between Parliament, the Council and the Commission have been well described and if, as Lenin said, only fools discuss the facts, I do not want to fall into that temptation and I will say no more on this point. Secondly, if you will allow me to speak autobiographically, I belong to the generation of Spaniards who well recognise the importance of parliament in a democracy. What is more, I was part of the Spanish Parliament that created the Constitution. I therefore have great sympathy for Mrs Randzio-Plath’s defence of the rights of Parliament. Thirdly, to continue in an autobiographical vein, I am also a committed European and I am absolutely sure that, just as the euro was essential yesterday, today structural reforms are absolutely necessary and, amongst them, we must place special emphasis on the reform of financial services if we want the European economy to be competitive. My fourth point is the reconciliation of these two objectives: doing things well and doing them quickly, speeding up the process and respecting the rights of Parliament, must be carried out, as Mr Huhne said, within strict limits, the limits laid down in Article 202, which are badly worded and whose reform we advocate. Finally, the solution to this dilemma has been discovered by the new Knight of the Order of the Legion of Honour, Karl von Wogau, and supported by this Parliament. I hope that the Commission appreciates this vote of confidence from Parliament in the Commission and the Council, and that it will never fall into the temptation – since Mr Bolkestein likes Latin – to alter the , because the reaction of a spurned lover is unpredictable. Parliament has the powers to try to go into the maximum detail within level 1, which would delay the process. Parliament could, like a spurned lover, delay discussing the proposals and that would mean doing the opposite to what we should be doing. I believe that today is a great day for all of us. I congratulate Karl von Wogau, the Commission and the Council and I hope that in Barcelona we will be able to reap the harvest which we have begun to sow today. . – Mr President, I would like to start by explaining exactly what we are discussing. We are dealing with the economic guidelines, and in my view, there are three novel aspects to them. Firstly, they are economic guidelines for three years, not just for one year. Secondly, they will be discussed alongside the employment guidelines. Thirdly, we are holding these discussions at a time of recession. We have learnt this morning that the most powerful economy in the European Union has entered into recession. These are therefore no ordinary economic guidelines. Given these circumstances the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and myself in particular, were requested to draft a report promptly to allow the Commission and the Council to study it. We were asked to try and arrive at the broadest possible consensus. We have achieved this. All the groups had to make compromises but we did manage to reach an agreement. I should like to take this opportunity of highlighting the splendid work of the spokespersons for the various groups. Othmar Karas spoke on behalf of my group, Robert Goebbels spoke on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Carles-Alfred Gasòliba i Böhm spoke on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. I would also like to say to the Commission that whenever Parliament has been invited to respond, the response has invariably been helpful. As suggested in the Poem of the Cid, a servant will always respond well to a good master. I urge you to bear this in mind and to involve Parliament in the discussion of these economic guidelines. Amongst other things, this discussion will serve to put pressure on the Member States lagging furthest behind. I shall now outline the key points of my report. Firstly, we want to know whether the current coordination mechanisms are adequate, or whether further measures are needed. We understand that the Treaty states that national policies, supply policies and short-term policies are policies of common interest and should be coordinated. We are now three years behind with the implementation of the Lisbon strategy. Whenever the Commissioner appears before us, he states that the delay is due to lack of application and due diligence on the part of the Member States We wish to do more than simply wring our hands. We would like to suggest appropriate action to remedy these failures concerning implementation. We have two proposals in this regard. We would ask the Commission once and for all to draw up a list detailing the rigidities hindering implementation of the internal market and structural change. This list should also detail priorities, measures required and the calendar for meeting the Lisbon objectives by 2010. Assuming that lack of due diligence on the part of the Member States is the reason for this delay, we call upon the Commission to explain to us what it could do to remedy the situation. Once upon a time there was a Spanish constitution stating that Spaniards should be fair and charitable. Unfortunately this constitution did not contain any provisions detailing how such a transformation was to be achieved. Subsequently, Spain endured three civil wars during the nineteenth century. We call for coordination to guarantee that all economic policies are going in the same direction. That is what coordination is about. Secondly, I would like to stress that I believe wholeheartedly in maintaining balanced budgetary positions. There is no need to change things that are working well just because other things are not. Monetary policy has worked well during this period. This policy is aimed at achieving price stability. It is managed through an independent bank and a Stability Pact that has maintained only a certain degree of discipline in the Member States. I stress that there has only been a certain degree of discipline. Some States have gone significantly astray. I would therefore like to reiterate my conviction that budgetary balance must remain the objective. As the Commission stated, those extravagant countries will have to reduce their structural deficit by half a percent of GDP. Thirdly, convergence programs should be assessed differently, as the Commission itself highlighted. The Commission has to verify that budgets are balanced. It also has to check carefully to ensure Member States do not exceed the 3% limit. In future, the Commission ought to take account of each Member State’s starting point. It ought to take account of each country’s debt and of how it plans to use resources obtained. It ought also to take account of the country’s anticipated future commitments. Take the case of a country which is not in debt, which plans to allocate money to public finances, notably to measures promoting the Lisbon strategy, and which does not have significant commitments for the future. The case of a country where these circumstances do not apply is entirely different. We call upon the Commission to ensure that Member States build up a budgetary reserve when times are good, or, to use a Biblical image, when the cows are fat. Such a reserve could be drawn on in bad times. We stress that countries should also reduce taxes whenever possible. In particular, we advocate a reduction in taxes increasing labour costs, as this would stimulate employment. Countries that cannot afford to reduce taxes should introduce supplementary measures. They should reduce public spending or increase income in other ways. It is impossible to maintain a balanced budget and reduce taxes at the same time. You cannot have your cake and eat it. As regards the policy on wages, we advocate keeping wages in line with the Retail Price Index. We believe actual wages should be in line with productivity. We advocate increasing labour mobility. In addition, we call on the Commission to speed up work on eliminating the fiscal barriers hindering the transfer of employment pensions. We further call on the Commission to establish an appropriate fiscal policy to complement the agreement reached on pensions. We appeal for social dialogue. Allow me to reiterate that we would like to see fiscal incentives for employment. We call for a reduction of the burdens that make employers unwilling to take on staff, especially those on the lowest wages. With regard to policies on investment, we are aware it has frequently been said we are lagging behind the United States because of lack of investment, especially in technology. We are also aware that we are more or less on a par with the United States in terms of public investment. Under investment occurs in the private sector. We therefore call for a benchmarking exercise to pinpoint the various needs, inadequacies and shortcomings of those companies. This is particularly relevant if small and medium-sized companies, with less than nine employees, are to access new technologies. Resources can only be allocated efficiently if the full picture is clear. We just need to know how things stand. We would like the Commission to report on this promptly. After all, to paraphrase a Spanish poet, there is no such thing as a favourable wind for a sailor who has not yet set his course. All we are requesting is a report to identify inadequacies and deficiencies in SMEs. It would then be possible to establish how best to proceed. I would like to end by thanking all the groups and their spokespersons for their efforts. Once again, the Commission can be assured that Parliament is ready, willing and able to help overcome the difficult situation we find ourselves in. . –  Mr President, this involves replacing the English sentence ‘that do not reduce’ with the following sentence ‘in order that they do not reduce’. That is all. – Mr President, I will make a few brief and concise observations. I fully agree with what the rapporteur said about the legislative procedure, the role of Parliament and the need for loyal cooperation between the institutions. I also agree with the rapporteur on his modifications to the Commission’s basic proposals. The Commission proposes a special tax, an abscissa of 50% with a threshold of 70%. Mr Katiforis proposes, firstly, to reduce this threshold to EUR 60 – a proposal which my group agrees with – and secondly, to offer the States which this directive is aimed at an alternative option: to apply the rate of 71%, including within this rate both special taxes and valued-added tax. I believe this is an innovative and important approach which respects the principle of price proportionality, which to a certain extent puts an end to the minimum threshold, and introduces a degree of clarity into indirect taxation. The accumulation of indirect taxes and value-added tax have been repeatedly condemned by this Parliament and this option – to establish a combined minimum level for the two taxes – seems to me to be a good solution. I also agree with the rapporteur that price plays a part in dissuading people from smoking, but it is not the only method, and we therefore expect the Commission to send us supplementary proposals soon, aimed at putting an end to this habit. I also agree that the price increase in coastal and border countries may lead to an increase in fraud. I would ask the Commission to strengthen the cooperation procedures in order to eradicate fraud, which is one of the elements that erodes indirect taxation, especially here, but we will talk about that later with Mr Bolkestein, in relation to the Kauppi report. Congratulations, Mr Katiforis. On this occasion you can count on the support of my group. – Mr President, firstly I wish to thank Mrs Thyssen for her gesture and for her defence of the amendment we are presenting. I also wish to thank and highlight the patriotism of Mr Berenguer and Mr Knörr. This patriotism is consistent because ESA 95 was adopted by the Socialist government, to whose party the former belongs. Having said this and leaving aside accusations which are truly libellous at the moment, I would like to defend the idea of an extended transition period of two years. Anybody who knows anything about accounting and who looks at this text with open eyes will know that this implies a profound change in the basic concepts and the data on the resources of the institutional sectors which affect financial companies, non-financial sectors, public administrations and private individuals. This change is a complicated change. As any expert knows, the estimations in accordance with ESA 95 require breakdowns which affect no less than 60 accounting categories. Secondly, this profound and complex change must be done in a gradual way. As Mrs Thyssen has pointed out, changing and adapting the accounting rules requires a certain amount of time. At the end of the day this would lead to a fair change because a sudden change would prejudice those States which have adopted the criterion of income, in other words, those which have, to a greater extent, complied with the regulation which entered into force in 1999. We are being asked to change a regulation which entered into force a few months ago. The PPE-DE’s amendment asks for the change to be introduced gradually. –  Mr President, I wish to express my personal pleasure at the fact that we have achieved a unanimous resolution on this issue and congratulate my fellow Members on this achievement. The issue of clementines is not an isolated incident, but is one link in a chain of tensions that exists in trade relations between the United States and the European Union. I shall not waste time listing them all, but I shall refer – as I did yesterday, in the debate on transatlantic dialogue – to the problem of hormone-treated meat, to the banana war, to aid for North American airlines, which has led to our own airlines becoming less competitive, and to massive export subsidies, which have been deemed illegal. The most serious aspect is not that this should have happened but that, apparently, we are entering a new era of protectionism, which has become evident on the steel issue, which we discussed yesterday, and also on the issue of clementines. I also wish to emphasise that the issue of clementines is, if possible, more serious than the issue of steel. Steel will have entry conditions imposed on it that will make imports more expensive; on the issue of the clementines, the borders have simply been closed. This is why I said yesterday that I shall be demanding the same rigour and the same energy on the issue of clementines as on the issue of steel, if we wish to maintain credibility and be able to hold our heads high in the World Trade Organisation. I wish to correct Mr Jové Peres, who has fallen into the temptation, in passing, of making the Spanish Government out to be the villain of the piece. The Commission has long been aware of this issue and, if it had followed proceedings more closely, it would have seen an answer from Mr Lamy in which he told me that, as early as December, the United States trade representative, Mr Zoellick, had a meeting with the representative of the Commission, who was fully informed of the situation, through the Government and because I had tabled a question on 12 December. But, when all is said and done, this is a piece of cheek that I can tolerate and understand, since you are a member of the opposition. With regard to the request that has been made, I agree with what the speakers have said. What needs to be done, first of all, is to compensate those who have suffered losses; secondly, to pursue dialogue with the United States because, as we know, a poor deal is better than no deal at all, especially when a good deal could take years to conclude and ruin our production and, thirdly, to initiate, as soon as possible, proceedings in the 133 Committee. I must emphasise that this is more as a means of exerting pressure and imposing negotiation in order to bring the United States to the dialogue table than in order to initiate proceedings that could drag on forever. I would emphasise that the Spanish Government – whether Mr Jové Peres likes it or not – started this issue in December, as Mr Lamy has shown. Therefore, look elsewhere for the villain and let us all work together to protect Spanish clementines, which is my only objective at the moment, as I am sure is true for the President, who – in his enthusiasm - has generously given me more speaking time than I was due. – Mr President, today’s debate is extremely important because the principle of competition has probably been the cornerstone of the internal market. In accordance with the principle of competition, the legislation has implemented Articles 85 to 94, competition policy in the strict sense, and the revision of all state aid and tax provisions which may affect competition. Firstly, fiscal provisions of an indirect nature and recently, thanks to Commissioner Monti, there have been direct provisions, the code of good conduct in particular. This has worked fairly well, but, as in the famous film  ‘time goes by’ and we must adapt the legislation we have been applying until now to the new circumstances. In this respect I have observed a significant consensus in all the interventions. Firstly, it is necessary, in drawing up the legislation, to produce clear and complete rules. It is probably horrendous, especially in this particular raft of legislation, that there are confused rules, regulatory vacuums and rules that only lay down undefined legal concepts. This is all the worse – as is the case with the second part of this reform – when responsibility for implementing the legislation lies with national authorities. Thirdly, it seems to me important that the Commission should play a role in resisting the temptation to create independent agencies which would distort the very essence of the Commission, in order to guarantee uniform application by international bodies. Fourthly, and lastly – and this has already been mentioned – the international legal order has changed. We have seen this in the aborted Seattle Conference and we are now seeing it in the bilateral conferences with different regions or countries of the world. The principle of competition must now be universal in its application. We must monitor compliance with environmental standards, employment standards, in order to prevent dumping in this area, and we must ensure scrupulous respect for property rights and the revision of state aid, which in many industries – as has already been said – distorts competition and destroys jobs within our own territory. To sum up, we should apply similar conditions that will prevent aid, internal distortions by other countries, from being transferred to the international arena, in other words, through trickery. – Mr President, two years ago the Commission presented two proposed modifications, one of the sixth directive and the other of the Regulation on administrative cooperation. The aim of both was to end the discrimination suffered by European companies in comparison with those of third countries, particularly American ones, in terms of the provision of services. This discrimination is due to the fact that companies from outside the Union do not pay value-added tax when they provide electronic services, while European companies are obliged to pay it. Since this is an urgent issue, Parliament produced two reports very quickly. At the moment, the Council are asking us for a change to the legal basis exclusively for the Regulation on administrative cooperation. I am not going to expand on this issue, but I wish to say they are two different things. The Committee believes that we should not proceed with the change of legal basis, but that the issue should be studied with the greatest urgency, in order to put an end to this discrimination and, furthermore, as Parliament has requested, in order to facilitate the use of electronic means for identifying clients, putting an end to the costs which are faced in particular by small and medium-sized businesses. I would therefore advise the House to accept the Council’s request in relation to the urgency procedure, and not accept the change of legal basis in relation to this issue. It is one thing to deny a material request and quite another to deny it an urgency procedure so that these two proposals can be implemented very quickly. –  Mr President, I fully subscribe to the intervention by Mr Von Wogau and I shall make some additional remarks. The Lamfalussy report is based on one sure fact: the legislative procedure we have is too slow and prevents us from shaping legislation to market needs in time. What the Lamfalussy report does not say is that the point where legislation on this matter normally gets bogged down is in the Council. Therefore I think the telling-off was aimed at the wrong culprit. Secondly, the Lamfalussy report tries to solve this problem by delegating the drawing up of enforcement measures to a stocks and shares committee in which the Council and Commission do not lose an iota of the power they had, while Parliament’s power is cut back. In my opinion, the solution prescribed may generate a lack of confidence which, in the long term, will result in an even slower process than we have had until now. What Parliament is asking is that when a rule of enforcement goes too far in relation to general principles, it must not be seen as a mandatory rule but as an unlawful one. We are not asking the Commission to take our opinion into consideration; if the rule goes too far, the rule is not a rule. That is what the theory of the mandate says, which I learnt in Roman Law, or the theory of the delegation of powers, which I learnt in Political Law. But perhaps the most important thing in this deviation of the Lamfalussy report, which has been taken up by the Stockholm Council, is the intergovernmental deviation to the detriment of the Community method of drawing up rules, and secondly, and even more importantly, the desire to speed up the liberalisation of the internal financial services market without, at the same time, adjusting the rules and measures that provide controls or safeguards. Under these conditions we could find ourselves with a hypermarket with no political control, in which the nation states are subordinated to semi-political decisions made by economic agents that would move with absolute freedom around the Union. We had more or less the same discussion before the Single European Act, when fortunately Mrs Thatcher’s ideas did not triumph. – Thank you very much, Mr Karas, for your intelligent work, which has a very clear objective: to ensure that this proposal for a directive will see the light as soon as possible. To this end, and with a view to removing any obstacles which could be raised by the Council, I have presented two amendments to resolve a problem, a Spanish problem, but one which also affects other nationalities. I will put it in Aristotelian terms. Major premise: in Spain there are funds without legal personality, established for the payment of retirement benefits. Minor premise: these funds are administrated by certain entities which do have legal personality. Conclusion: these entities must be subject to the same conditions and requirements as bodies which play identical roles in other countries and which do have legal personality. Mr Karas and I have prepared amendments which he will lay out tomorrow orally, which I hope will solve this problem. The second issue I would like to refer to has been mentioned by some speakers; it relates to the fiscal problems raised by these funds. The proposal for a directive does not say a word about it, because that is not its purpose. There is a Commission communication of 19 April which deals with the problems caused by fiscal obstacles for crossborder pensions. The most important of these problems, which is in third place chronologically, relates to situations of double taxation or non-taxation when there are differences in the tax systems, as is the case within the European Union. The solution, according to the communication itself, is the harmonisation of rules on pensions; nevertheless, this committee desists from this audacious route and prefers to use the current rules, which – in my judgment – will be insufficient. I know that the Commissioner will ask me to approach the States, but I only have a voice in this Parliament and only he can be my interlocutor. . – Mr President, in this joint debate we are going to discuss three reports which relate to four Commission proposals, which means that I have an unusual number of roles to play. I am rapporteur for two of them, I am shadow rapporteur for Mrs Torres Marques’s report and I am tabling amendments to the report on aviation fuel, because I do not agree with some of the ideas which were approved in committee. The second peculiarity, as you will have the opportunity to discover, is that I am in an unusual position within my own group. My military career was neither long nor distinguished, but I did learn that the role of the artillery was to bombard the infantry, if possible, the enemy infantry. I fear that I am currently trapped in my group’s own crossfire. I will start by discussing the first of the reports, which relates to VAT on e-commerce. The proposal which the Commission has referred to Parliament has, in my opinion, a priority objective: to remedy the discriminatory situation currently suffered by European e-commerce companies in comparison to companies from third countries. E-commerce refers to the provision of services delivered by Internet and radio and TV services provided by subscription or ‘pay per view’. I am stressing this because some of the amendments intend to establish a zero rate of VAT for services which, in my opinion, are not of an essential or social nature. The Commission also has other secondary objectives, in accordance with the traditional thinking of ministries of finance: to achieve this objective – that of ending this discrimination – by simplifying the tax, making it considerably more effective in terms of the recovery and reduction of the administrative costs relating to the collection of taxes, to achieve the objectives of efficiency and fairness and to achieve, finally, the modernisation of the tax system. These objectives, the main one and the secondary ones, will be the touchstone by which the concrete proposals submitted by the Commission must be judged. However, Mr President, I said that the first of these criteria by which we must judge this proposal is the need to end the discrimination suffered by European companies in comparison with third countries. This discrimination comes about because Article 9 of the sixth directive establishes the presumption that the place where the service is provided is the address where the service provider is officially established. In other words, at the moment European companies are subject to VAT when they provide electronic services, whether that be inside or outside the Union. On the other hand, companies established outside the Union never pay VAT, whether they are providing services to European clients or to clients in other parts of the world, thereby harming our competitiveness in external markets. To sum up and to put it very simply, the services provided by European companies currently suffer a tax burden which is not suffered by third country companies who provide services within the Union. Therefore, current European legislation encourages European e-commerce companies to establish themselves outside the Community. Some of the arguments which we will hear in the course of this afternoon will say that burdening outside companies which provide services within the Union would put a brake on the growth of e-commerce, but precisely the opposite is true, since maintaining this state of affairs harms the growth of the European e-commerce industry. We all agree on this, both on this side and on the other side of the Atlantic. We are so much in agreement that, at the Ottawa Conference in 1998, three conclusions were reached which I consider to be important: firstly, national taxes on consumption must be applied to consumption which takes place within national territory. Secondly, the provision of digital products constitutes a provision of services rather than a delivery of goods. Thirdly, we must turn to simple formulae for recovering taxes and, specifically, the reversal of the taxable person. In accordance with this objective, and with this international legal framework agreed by everybody in Ottawa, the Commission proposes the amendment of the sixth directive to lay down that digital services should be established in the place where the receiver is established rather than the provider. Consequently, services provided by European companies to non-European companies would always be exempt from the tax, which would revive our international competitiveness. Secondly, services provided by European companies to European customers would be subject to tax, as is normal. And thirdly, services provided by non-European companies to European companies would also be subject to tax, which establishes equality of conditions, in other words, fair play, on an international level. The problem does not stem transactions between companies, but occurs when the receiver of the service is a private individual, and here the Commission is doing the only thing it can do: oblige non-EU companies to register in a country of the European Union so that from there, with a Community passport, it can provide services to the whole of the Union, while having to pay the same tax as the European companies. In my view, this solution resolves the problem of eliminating previous discrimination and achieves the objective of simplification. A company only has to register in one country of the Union. It does not have to register in fifteen, it does not have to understand fifteen different sets of legislation and does not have to struggle with fifteen administrations. However, it does not resolve the problem of fairness. We know that a solution such as this – establishment in one country with the opportunity to provide services to the whole of the Union – could lead to an avalanche towards those countries with the lowest taxes. The French Presidency therefore proposed that non-EU companies providing services in the Union should have to register in all fifteen countries, which contradicts the objective of simplification. What does the Commission propose? The Commission proposes, respecting the objective of simplification, a single place of establishment, but that the tax recovered by the Treasury of that country should be redistributed amongst the other countries of the Union, in accordance with the relative consumption. That is exactly the formula which will enable the introduction of VAT at source, it is exactly the formula which we have decided for cross-border returns of VAT and it is exactly the formula Ecofin has approved, in accordance with the Feira conclusions, in the case of withholding taxes. Is this Commission communication complete? It is not. There are certain problems which I have highlighted in the explanatory statement, such as ensuring that a company which can provide services from outside the Union is registered. How can we guarantee that there is no discrimination between similar products? Digital service, the consultation of or access to a book or a magazine, would be taxed at the normal rate if this were done via the Internet, whereas it would be subject to a lower rate when it is supplied physically. How can we resolve the problems of identifying the client? The responses contained in the Commission’s proposal seems to me to be adequate, and in any event, Mr President, these difficulties are clearly not exclusive to the taxation of digital services. VAT is a tax that was intended to cover the movement of goods and does not suit the provision of services, especially a phenomenon as new as Internet services. The second of the reports I am going to refer to deals with the problem of hydrocarbons, and the issue is very simple. The 1992 Directive established a mandatory exemption for fuels used in international aviation and, at the same time, established a review of the exemption in order to take account of environmental costs. The legal difficulties for this revision are found in the 1944 Chicago Convention, an international obligation, which exempts on-board fuel supplied to aircraft from tax, and the bilateral agreements. Faced with this situation, the Commission ordered a study, which is the one we are investigating here, on what can be done. The first conclusion is that little can be done until the international framework is modified. The second conclusion reached by the Commission is that it would be desirable to have a tax on national flights and on intra-Community flights, subject to modification of the bilateral agreements, which is something I do not agree with. Thirdly, and this I do agree with, the need – within the international framework of the ICAO – to make all the progress necessary to establish a tax which is world-wide, and therefore not discriminatory, on Community transport. Mr President, having abused your patience, I impatiently await the criticisms and comments of the other Members, both from my group and from others. Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his reply. The question I asked was very clear; the Commission’s reply as well. The facts are absolutely clear and I am in agreement with the Commission in relation to them. The diagnosis is not under discussion; what we are discussing now is the therapy required. I am pleased that measures should be taken on 22 January, and I would like to know what type of measures the Commission has planned, because at the moment it is not a question of discussing, but rather it is a question – as in Lenin’s famous tract – of what to do. What to do and to do it as soon as possible, because the introduction of a disease of this sort could have harmful consequences which are very difficult to put right if they are not tackled in time. Commissioner, I would like to know what the Commission is going to propose at the meeting which is going to take place on 22 and 23 January: the specific measures it is going to propose. I would like to know the specific analysis of the specific reality. –  This involves replacing the adjective ‘High’, qualifying the noun ‘representative’, with the adjective ‘Single’. The phrase would then be: ‘Single representative’ and not ‘High representative’. – Mr President, the Valencia Summit is most likely to be remembered just for having been held. Obviously, as both the rapporteur and the Commission stated, the Barcelona Process must not be confused with the Middle East peace process. It is also obvious however that there can be no Barcelona Process without peace in the Middle East. I should therefore like to congratulate the Spanish Presidency on its efforts to bring about peace. To my knowledge, the Barcelona declaration is the most strongly worded declaration in existence on this issue. The presence of the President of the Council at the Arab League Summit was a first. The mission to the Middle East did take place. That was a success in itself. Further, it succeeded in retaining its dignity. There was no meeting with Mr Arafat, but none with Mr Sharon either. I should also like to say how pleased I am that the EU-Israel Association Council has been convened, as well as the Madrid meeting. This process has to guarantee the security and viability of two states, the Palestinian State and the State of Israel. Having clarified the relationship between the peace process and the Barcelona Process, I have to say that in my view the Commission is being unduly self-congratulatory. True, progress has been made regarding the Association Agreement, the Agadir Process has been launched and a development process tentatively put in train. As I understand it, however, all this is simply a drop in the ocean. A single statistic suffices to indicate the gap between what is required and the current situation. The Commission has correctly stated that 45 million new jobs need to be created in the coming decade just to retain the present levels of poverty and unemployment. If this is not achieved, the growth of fundamentalism will threaten the security of our southern borders, as Mr Morillon and other speakers pointed out. Our internal security will also be compromised, due to the increased flow of illegal immigration. I therefore believe that Mr Esteve has chosen the points to highlight in his report wisely. I also believe that if we are to move on from words to action we must set up a Euro-Mediterranean Assembly. This would serve as a spearhead, breathing new life into the process and speeding it up, which is urgently required. I am glad more speakers from non-Mediterranean countries have taken the floor. This has not often been the case when we have dealt with these issues in the past. It suggests that the European Union is starting to understand that it needs to look South as well as East if it is to ensure its own survival. Mr President, I asked for the floor yesterday but was not allowed to speak by the President at the time. I simply wanted to say, firstly, that the Spanish Constitution establishes a model of self-government which is infinitely more generous than that achieved by Northern Ireland. Secondly, this self-government has mainly been exercised by nationalist forces and, at the moment, is exclusively so. Unlike Northern Ireland, the ministerial posts are not shared between nationalists and non-nationalists. There are political forces – we have just seen them here – which disagree with the constitutional model given to us by the Spanish. However, our Constitution allows this disagreement to be voiced by peaceful and democratic means. The parties aiming to destroy constitutional order enter the elections under the flag of independence. What has to be decided at this point is whether or not it is legal to eliminate those who disagree. Mr President, I would like to end by saying that, for 40 years, the children of my generation listened wearily to a rhetoric which asserted that ballot-boxes were better off destroyed and that words should be replaced by fists and guns. The children who left Spain with clean hands will not return to hear this rhetoric again. . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Common Position we are discussing at the moment has a short but intense history. In 1998, this Parliament and the Council approved a programme designed to improve the operation of taxation systems within the internal market. Just one year ago, in 2001, an assessment was made of the three first years of operation of this system. I am happy to say that the development was satisfactory, and also that this programme was, in itself, subject to that assessment. This year we have been presented with a Commission proposal to extend the programme – which will expire on New Year’s Eve of this year – for a further five years, in other words, until 2007. I believe there are two innovative elements to the programme which is going to be in force for the next five years (Fiscalis 2007) in comparison with the previous one: it is being extended to include direct taxation – which is good news – and to include the needs of the candidate countries, which is even better news. I believe that the Fiscalis 2007 programme which we are now studying has three broad objectives. Firstly, it is proposed that the taxation systems of the Member States should function properly; secondly, that better operation should be achieved by means of cooperation between the tax administrations responsible for applying it, and thirdly, that the better operation resulting from cooperation should serve to eradicate fraud. With regard to the first idea, that is, that the taxation systems should function properly, with this programme it is not a question of taking a step further in terms of tax harmonisation – as the Commission and, explicitly, the Council have stated – although I would have liked to have seen a little more ambition, a more decisive step in the process of Community harmonisation. Secondly, cooperation is an idea that is repeated in all the Commission’s documents. Administrative cooperation was mentioned in the 1987 proposals to move towards VAT at source and the 1996 programme, the new 2000 VAT strategy, the Monti code for reform of direct taxes etc all have the same objective. ‘Cooperation’ is a magic word, a mantra which is repeated, and I would like to see it become more of a reality than it is at the moment. I could not agree more with these three objectives, but I must make a few comments on the specific objectives in relation to VAT and direct taxes. At first reading we presented certain amendments that we have not wanted to reproduce at second reading, in honour of the Commissioner. At the moment the urgent thing is that this programme be approved so that it is in force on 1 January 2003 – otherwise it would expire – and we have had to sacrifice certain legitimate aspirations that, nevertheless, I would like to mention now, since we will reproduce them at a later date. The Fiscalis 2007 programme, in relation to VAT, states that it is good to know how VAT works, and this enthusiasm for knowledge, cooperation and coordination sits well with the four objectives set in the VAT strategy for 2003: to simplify, modernise and apply the tax in the most uniform possible way and to increase cooperation between the different administrations. Nevertheless, Commissioner, I regret that this programme has not been used to take a further step forward in the process of transition towards VAT at source. All the Commission’s documents repeat ad nauseam that the internal market will only function well – or function better, if you prefer – with VAT at source. We are told that if we are not making progress towards VAT at source it is because the Member States do not have faith in the compensation system and the system for reallocating resources, which was initially based on the declarations of taxpayers and then on statistical data, but which has never satisfied the Member States. We should have moved forward with this programme in order to become aware of the information and the framework which, as well as making compensation possible, would also have made the desired transition to VAT at source possible. Nor in the field of direct taxes has the opportunity been taken – as the amendment we have not wanted to repeat says – to strengthen the relationship between taxation policy and other Community policies. It is well known that taxation policy is instrumental in terms of these other policies. I will give just three examples: the Commissioner is well aware that, in the financial services action plan, it was said that there had to be parallel progress in the liberalisation of the sector, in the monitoring and control rules – which are so well known now following the Enron case – and in the harmonisation of indirect taxes, so that the liberalisation should not lead to a centralisation of financial activities in climates and countries which are most favourable from a tax point of view. With regard to competition rules, there is a clear relationship – above all in relation to State aid – with taxation policy. The code of good conduct, which forms part of the Monti package, referred to the fiscal distortions that could alter the functioning of the internal market. Sustainable development – and we have held a debate on this issue – is closely linked to energy taxes. Our amendment therefore recommended that this programme of exchange of information, knowledge and training be used to make better knowledge between taxation policy and other Union policies possible. The Commission has not taken advantage of this journey to make progress on knowledge of the information which would have made the transition to VAT at source possible, which continues to be a paradise lost which we all want to reach, and has not taken the opportunity to promote knowledge and the interrelationship between taxation policy and other Community policies which it intends to serve. I would insist, however, that the broad objectives of the programme seem to me to be good ones: to understand the operation of the taxation systems and to cooperate between administrations in order to eradicate fraud. I think it is right that this programme should be implemented as soon as possible and therefore, Commissioner, we are giving you a vote of confidence by not reproducing the amendments we presented at first reading, in order to prevent a conciliation procedure and so that this programme – which I am sure the Commissioner will administrate very well – can be implemented as soon as possible. I reserve the right to raise other objectives on other occasions, but I believe that at this time prudence and urgency are more important than the value and the improvement of the programme. Commissioner, I wish you good luck in implementing it. Mr President, I must firstly thank the rapporteur, Mr Schmidt, my colleague, Mr Goebbels, and Mrs Villiers and Mrs Lulling from my Group. Despite their differing opinions on some points, they have consistently worked in an extremely constructive manner. As indicated by the rapporteur, we are discussing probably one of the most important issues that we will ever have to discuss in this Parliament. Collective investment undertakings have for some time been the primary savings vehicle through which millions of ordinary citizens, without any specialist knowledge, have invested their life savings. This is the main reason why we must proceed with liberalisation, albeit in a prudent manner. I say this because the failure of a bank is a problem for which any government can find a solution. However, the failure and suspension of payments of this type of undertaking would create a political, social and personal problem with incalculable consequences. There is also a second reason why prudence is needed in the regulation of these undertakings. I believe in a social market economy based on a successful market operating subject to certain rules intended to guarantee the general interest. Specifically, at the moment, this means the protection of investors. This basic principle of liberalisation, increased competition and greater investment opportunities, together with prudence to ensure the protection which investors deserve, has determined and inspired my Group’s position on most of the controversial points which have arisen. Firstly, there is the problem of investment in non-harmonised undertakings falling outside this directive. It is clear that by extending the proposal under discussion, the options and the range of investments in undertakings for collective investments, those undertakings which remain outside the rules will be obliged to invest in high-risk funds. It would be wrong to allow the regulated and protected undertakings to invest in other undertakings involved in such risky investments. Secondly, the problem of derivatives is one which has created the most divisions, both within my Group and between the groups. We have achieved a compromise solution. Everyone accepts that investments in derivatives must be legally limited in order to prevent a harmonised fund losing all its assets due to an investment in high-risk products. It is clear that this risk is greater when the investment is in derivatives not dealt in on a regulated market, namely the famous OTC derivatives. We have achieved an acceptable compromise solution on this, or so we believe, which I welcome. As this issue will be returning to this House at some stage, I must highlight the working method used between the Commission and this Parliament. The texts before us today are old and were already old when they reached this House. This was because they were substantially amended during the Finnish Presidency. We are therefore faced with two options. We can either return the proposals to the Commission for the latter to present a harmonised text or we can continue the current process. This second option has won the day and I am pleased about this. However, in the future I hope that the coordination between these two institutions and the Council can be improved so that our work is more understandable and more productive. – Mr President, the citizens of Europe undoubtedly demand a more favourable environment and we in this House must reflect those expectations and make it possible for them to be fulfilled. The 2000-2004 multiannual programme for sustainable development in the urban environment is an appropriate instrument for achieving this end, and the implementation of Agenda 21 is an excellent way of coordinating and developing actions. Nevertheless, we must recognise that there has been no widespread success, either in the implementation of Agenda 21 or in the results obtained. Land planning in many Member States still fails to take account of the capacity of the physical environment, the cultural heritage and the resources of local authorities to assume their environmental duties. Furthermore, the report on sustainable cities highlights the existence of significant shortcomings in the practice and in the development of environmental legislation at a local level. The multiannual plan has ambitious objectives and a very broad scope, which can be extended to the candidate countries. Of course, we need a budget which is coherent with the terms of the proposal, but we would be falling into another trap if we did not have much more effective mechanisms for monitoring and assessing the results than we have at the moment. To conclude: ‘yes’ to strengthening the budget, ‘yes’ to the report and to the improvements which Mrs Lienemann has made to the Commission’s proposal, but also to reinforcing, considerably, the mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of all these programmes, both within the Commission and in the Member States themselves. – Mr President, I too would like to refer first to aspects of research and development that can be the driving forces generating value for businesses. I agree with Mr Linkohr that it would be useful to open a debate on Mr Lange’s contribution. Unfortunately this is not possible. I should like to present one example. If Europe eventually takes the decision to actively support and promote clean technology, research and development in that field will become an obvious source of employment and investment in the Union. One of the major challenges currently facing the international community concerns implementing the Kyoto Protocol and meeting its objectives. This has generated heated debate between the industrial world and the administration. In my view, widespread application of cleaner technology is one solution, precisely because it would facilitate the reduction of polluting emissions. The competitive and dynamic Europe we are all hoping for is unlikely to emerge without investment in such technology. My second and last point is a corollary of the first. It is absolutely vital to be far more active in promoting the efficient use of natural resources. The reason is, quite simply, that decoupling economic growth and the increased use of resources is a  for ensuring the continuity of sustainable growth. It is also crucial to the creation of a knowledge-based Europe. Such a Europe would be a world leader in terms of competitiveness and full employment. It is the Europe we are all striving for. Mr President, I would like to make an initial reference to the issue of the legal basis of this report and to the debate it has given rise to. I sincerely believe that it would not be the best approach to confront internal market interests and the interests of environmental protection or the health of the citizen's. What is more, it seems to me a serious mistake and I personally believe precisely the opposite. I believe we must adopt an integrated and complementary approach, I believe that when we talk about the environment, we must also take account of the interests of the internal market and the possible difficulties it may bring with it and I believe that, when we talk about the internal market, we must take account of environmental interests. That is sustainable development, that is integration of the environment, the economy and employment and that is what has been advocated in the proposal for issues to deal with at this year’s forthcoming Spring Council. I believe that, if we really do not believe in these three pillars of integrated and joint sustainable development, and to the same degree and with the same weight in all our considerations, we would be making political statements with a view to our summits and our communications as Community institutions which are entirely erroneous and false for our citizens. And I frankly do not believe in this. I believe in this integrated approach and I am, therefore, concerned much less about the legal basis of the reports than about the real focus of their content and about how cooperation is undertaken between the various Community committees and institutions. In this regard, and in relation to this report, I would like to say that during the Italian Presidency very considerable progress was made on this Regulation and also the creation of general guidelines on it was provided for. It was not approved because there was a significant problem in relation to POP waste and in particular the alternative methods for its destruction. I believe that this issue has been resolved in the new Annex IV(a), which is the outcome of negotiations during the Irish Presidency. In this regard I believe we should congratulate Mrs Frahm because she has done excellent work in terms of reaching a consensus, firstly amongst the parliamentary political groups and secondly also with the Council, so that we can approve this report at first reading. That is why, although I am not completely in agreement with her in terms of emphasising environmental aspects over everything else, and I believe we should achieve the balance which is what we in the European Union and the Member States are really advocating, I do believe that it is a good piece of work, I do believe that she has had difficulties reaching agreements on issues such as waste or the specific exemption of the manufacture of dicofol, a substance accepted under very specific restrictions, in an industrial process which is also very specific and which is carried out in a manner which is confined and absolutely isolated from the environment. I also agree with the revision clause, which states that the Commission will review the very specific situation of dicofol at the end of 2008 and I believe that what is being done with it is to apply, once again, in a reasonable manner, the precautionary principle, making industrial activity truly compatible with the maximum protection of the environment and safety for the citizens. With regard to Annex II, which lists substances which can be used subject to restrictions, I believe it has been right to maintain the structure of this Annex – I know that the rapporteur was not in favour of this – but I believe that, although at the moment it does not list any specific substance, it does leave the door open to future substances which may emerge and which both the Commission and Parliament, through its approval, believe should be used, produced or marketed under certain restrictions. With regard to the issue of lindane, I believe that it is very good that it has moved to Annex I as a prohibited substance and that its use may be permitted under certain also very strict conditions, as proposed in the agreement. Finally, I believe we should stress what I mentioned earlier: compatibility is important and we must never lose the reference of sustainable development with its three aspects: economy, environment and employment. With that reference I believe that Europe and the Member States can go far. – Madam President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to warmly congratulate Mrs Roth-Behrendt on having made progress on this difficult directive and particularly on the manner in which she has done so. During this legislature, I have had the opportunity to debate many issues, some of them genuinely difficult and complicated, but perhaps in none of them have I seen so much desire to reach consensus through cooperation amongst all the agents involved as in the case of the rapporteur on this directive. I do not believe that this has been a debate based on the positions of the different political groups, in confrontation; it has essentially been a debate between stagnation and progress in an area on which the European Parliament has for years maintained a united and coherent position, with a view of the issues which differs from that of the cosmetics industry and, on several fundamental points, also from that of the Commission itself. Parliament had a clear view of what it wanted: to set time limits for the end of experimentation on animals, and of the marketing of products experimented on them and, furthermore, to improve the general framework of the legislation regulating these products in the Member States. For its part, the industry initially maintained the same position of rejecting these requests which Parliament had been defending for years, which made the application of the sixth amendment of the directive unviable. The rapporteur has already mentioned the long process of debate and joint work between the parliamentary groups with the industry, the Commission and also with the competent administrations of the Member States and finally a compromise was achieved last November following an extremely long conciliation which, if I remember correctly, lasted twelve hours. I genuinely believe that there are no losers in relation to this issue. I am convinced that the industry is also a winner with the new commitments on prohibition, experimentation and marketing of six years from the entry into force of the directive. And this is essentially because they will be better able to serve the interests of the citizens in the field of animal protection, without in any way also undermining the safety or diversity, of course, of the products on the market. In this regard, one of the most difficult parts of the work on this directive has been managing to establish the field of exceptions through the definition of tests which, for a period of ten years in specific and essential cases where no alternative methods have been found, will still be able to be carried out. Another element which increases the safety of products is the prohibition of dangerous substances such as those which are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for reproduction which must be excluded from cosmetics. I am convinced that this seventh amendment offers the industry a new range of opportunities for research and development of new products, which, while guaranteeing their effectiveness and above all their safety, will need to be tested on animals. I believe this is a great challenge for the industry, which I would encourage to seek new sources of competitive advantage through this research and to initiate, with interest and good will, close cooperation with this Parliament. I believe that the European Parliament not only can and must communicate that this seventh amendment is a success, but also it would be a mistake for the industry not to take this opportunity to draw up a new communication strategy based on the agreements reached and on its position in favour of the concerns of the consumers, not only with regard to animal experimentation, but also, as we have seen, with regard to other points of the directive which imply greater control of the marketing of these products. Finally, I would like once again to highlight the issue of cooperation between the parties involved, in particular the eventual, it is true, but positive, flexibility of the Member States and the industry which has led to this final agreement. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I think that now, all of us in Parliament agree on the need to tackle the problem of climate change rigorously, not just in order to fulfil a commitment made by the European Parliament but also because of the undeniable world-wide importance of this issue.  Nevertheless, we feel that in order to succeed in this task, we must avoid various topics which crop up on a regular basis in discussions on the subject and we should avoid including them in the text of the resolution.  The first approach that we have to avoid is to think that economic development inevitably brings with it an increase in the deterioration of the environment. It is possible to neutralise to a large extent this undesirable effect of growth by making our resources more efficient. Introducing low cost efficiency measures would significantly reduce emissions. Nevertheless, attaining this objective may prove difficult for certain Member Countries, which is not what we want at all. The second topic concerns the way global problems are dealt with as local issues. The European Union must show itself to be strong on this matter and encourage as many countries as possible to sign up to this commitment and fulfil it. This is the only way we will be able to accept adopting measures which will certainly be difficult and economically damaging for various European Union countries, as well as for some of those mentioned in the motion for resolution.  The last thing that we should avoid doing is to make the protocol’s so-called flexible mechanisms the fundamental basis for our actions. Although it is true that there are means which would potentially allow us to fulfil the commitment made in Kyoto through national strategies and measures, the economic cost of the different options varies enormously. Strategic action in the areas where the net economic costs are lower should be stepped up immediately. For this reason, and before the measures are adopted as standard for energy, we would have to ensure the adoption of this strategic action, as well as the reliability of the means of production of gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect, so that we can efficiently monitor the development of the problem in all countries. – Madam President, people are getting somewhat tired of summits, because their practical results are so poor. However, each summit on development and the environment has marked a turning point in the relationship between man and his environment. The Stockholm Summit led to a general increase in awareness about the major threats to our environment. The Rio Summit defined a new arena, that of sustainable development. However, the concept of shared but differentiated responsibility has not gained the necessary support from the wealthiest countries. World leaders cannot, of course, be satisfied when they are reminded that the Rio commitments have not been fulfilled. In the ten years between Rio and Johannesburg there has been a significant change of scenery to a globalised society in which social and economic inequalities seem to be closely linked to environmental problems and to the governability of all countries. Eradicating poverty is a world priority, because it is the only way that we can manage the processes of globalisation in positive and fair manner. However, trends show that those living in the wealthiest countries wish to maintain their standard of living, while the other 80% of the world population needs to attain a dignified standard of living. As a result, the only hope for global sustainability is to change methods of production and consumption. We are aware of the key elements required to achieve fair growth in this globalised world, but we are not being determined enough in applying them. Transparency and openness in the markets, knowledge management, innovation management and the transfer of technology, efficiency in our processes and products and accepting and practising social and environmental responsibility in all sectors are some of the most important elements. The European Union has given clear signals that it is capable of leading that process. I hope that in Johannesburg we will be capable of defending our courageous, generous and worthy positions, which confirm us as leaders of a new world order. Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is now some two years since the Emissions Trading Directive opened up a new way forward for the most polluting sectors of industry. These sectors were to become involved in the struggle to reduce emissions of CO2 into the atmosphere. This represented a complex first step that was only taken recently. It was certainly necessary if the European Union is to make progress towards meeting its commitments on climate change. It is true, however, that a climate of fear and misgiving developed with regard to practical implementation. This is why the changes contained in this linking directive are so significant. The present linking directive allows the implementation of clean development projects. It also provides for the recognition of emission reduction certificates. The linking directive sends out an important political signal from the European Union to the developing countries, indicating that, by way of these projects, developing countries are likely to obtain far more substantial aid than they probably do at present for environmentally friendly development. A message is also being sent to the sectors concerned making it clear that the European Union really does intend to implement the means to facilitate involvement in trading in emissions rights. I believe Mr de Roo, the rapporteur, fully appreciated the need to ensure the linking directive was very flexible. He therefore worked admirably with all the political groups. In addition, he conducted excellent negotiations with the Council. I trust all this will bear fruit tomorrow and that a majority of the House will vote in favour at first reading. Nonetheless, it seems some opportunities were not seized or perceived as such. Further, some of the progress has been too faltering. Consequently, the flexible mechanism is not as flexible as it ought to be. The rapporteur is aware of this, as we have discussed it together. I have in mind firstly domestic or national projects, implementation of which has been restricted to rail networks. I feel it could have been possible to accept a far wider range of situations without detriment to the spirit of this directive. I also feel excessive caution was exercised when deliberating on the admissibility and implementation of hydro-electric projects. I believe such projects are needed in these countries, and that they are adequately provided for in the Marrakesh agreements. Further, I agree with Mr Linkohr that sinks are called for in these countries too, and that excessive caution has been exercised in this regard also. Nonetheless, there are some very positive developments worthy of note. One of these is the solution of the problem of supplementarity. I could also mention the capacity of the Member States to organise themselves, share common objectives and determine the best mix of appropriate policies in order to achieve them. I believe this is an excellent result, and would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again. – Mr President, I would first like to draw your attention to the excellent work undertaken by our fellow Member Mr Liese. He has developed and improved upon the Commission’s proposal. I think both the approach and the scope of the Liese report are excellent. Work on this directive began during the Spanish Presidency of the European Union. It is no accident that in 2002 Spain was the international role model for donations and transplants for the tenth year running. We therefore have a good understanding of this subject. We are also aware of all the problems involved in the transplantation of tissues, cells and organs. In recent years, very significant advances in transplant technology have been made, and the public has become more aware of the need to come forward as potential donors. In this context it is appropriate to establish specific European regulations to control such activities. The regulations are needed to guarantee all these activities can take place within the appropriate ethical, health and social framework in all Member States. As previously explained, donation and transplant procedures rely on solidarity. They rely on people playing their part in the donation system in an altruistic and disinterested way. It is therefore very important to ensure people will still volunteer to become donors for no reward. We must encourage people to come forward and increase the number of potential donors. Above all, we must ensure families respect donors’ decisions when the time comes. There has been much debate on whether organ transplantation should be included in this directive. While I believe we need Community regulations on organ transplantation, I think it would be wrong to include the issue in this particular directive. The directive would have to be substantially modified and this could undermine good organ transplant practice. I therefore believe Amendment No 6 provides a sensible solution to the problem. It rightly calls on the Commission to present a proposal on the matter in 2003. On the other hand, I think the Commission’s initial proposal, which would exclude cells to be used in the preparation of medicinal products from the directive is improved by Amendment No 21 which does include such cells. The most controversial aspect of this directive is perhaps the use of tissues and cells from cloned human embryos, because of the important ethical and moral implications. In my opinion Amendment No 30 establishes a number of basic conditions on respect for human dignity. I think these should apply in all Member States, although some of the latter may wish to take either a stricter or more liberal line on the basis of these common fundamental conditions. Lastly, as a Member of this House, I would like to convey my full support to those anonymous European citizens who, by donating tissues, cells or organs, offer patients hope and a new lease of life. They are indeed helping to achieve miracles. – Mr President, Commissioner, the  disaster once again demonstrates the insufficiency of Community actions to put an end to the strategies of certain ship owners and owners of oil cargoes of ignoring the legislation on safety in maritime transport. Despite the fact that history repeats itself, it is still difficult to establish data on the origin and destination of the cargo, as well as its exact characteristics. Old ships are still operating, using flags of convenience of countries which are less demanding in terms of safety, with crews which in most cases do not have the necessary professional qualifications and knowledge for this type of transport. It is clear that a problem that is repeated so often and which has such serious consequences for the economy of a region and for its marine and coastal ecosystems must be dealt with rigorously and quickly by means of joint measures in all the Member States of the European Union. Measures such as the extension of sea corridors should not be made to wait, so that ships transporting dangerous goods are further from the coast, especially when they are sailing through areas of high ecological sensitivity such as the Galician coasts. We must also urgently consider bringing forward the obligatory demand for double hulls and intensify and improve the quality of inspections. This has been said very clearly by Commissioner de Palacio. Furthermore, all the Community legislation must enter into force as soon as possible: the Erika I and Erika II packages. But above all it is essential that the existing rules are applied. Neither must we forget the human face of this disaster and the importance of the aid reaching its destination as soon as possible. Yesterday I was in Galicia, where the desolation of the fishermen is truly striking. These people deserve, by means of this debate and the urgent measures stemming from it, a decisive contribution from the European Union aimed at recovering their confidence in the future. –  Mr President, the two proposals we are debating tonight – which I agree are taking place far too late, given their importance – are pertinent for a variety of reasons. Firstly, because they are going to test the capacity and will of the electrics and electronics sector to maintain an attitude of active commitment to the protection of the environment, but also because they are going to test the capacity and will of the European institutions, Parliament in particular, to take a realistic and coherent approach, that can be adopted by the industry. The rapporteur, Mr Florenz, has had a difficult task in his attempt to produce a solid and effective proposal that can be accepted by all parties concerned. Now, as is apparent from this debate, in dealing with a complex and pioneering initiative in this field, there are still, in my opinion, many gaps and problems coming to light in its practical application. Two of these are of particular concern to me. One such example is consumables, such as those that have been mentioned here tonight. I believe that if we use this concept in an excessively wide sense we will be jeopardising those Member States who already have collection systems in place, in breaking up existing re-use circuits, inasmuch as we would be favouring recycling over re-use, before asking ourselves the question whether we are favouring the most ecologically sound system. Secondly, I would like to refer to ‘free-riders’. I believe that the compromise amendment presented is an appropriate solution, given that it did not seem logical that, taking the issue of individual financial responsibility as an example, we should have to make product manufacturers who disappear from the market or those who refuse to be identified responsible for their actions. I think we should take on a demanding approach with manufacturers who do not face up to their responsibilities with regard to waste, in order to defend those responsible manufacturers who have no reason to take on costs caused by these ‘free-riders’. – Mr President, I would first like to answer Mr de Roo, because it is the second time (the first time was in writing and the second was orally) that I have heard him make inaccurate statements about the position taken by the Spanish Members – without exception – and the Spanish Government regarding the framework directive. Mr de Roo, about two months ago you said that the Spanish Government and the Spanish Members voted against the framework directive. Either you were not at that vote or you did not realise that, without exception, we voted in favour of the framework directive. I think that this is a framework directive that – and I agree with what has been said here by several speakers – is going to promote a new culture in terms of water in European countries, based on criteria of efficiency and quality of water resources. No one can deny this, much less so the  or the Spanish Government. It seems to me, Mr de Roo, that your Group is particularly interested in the Spanish water plan. You could have put the question more directly from the start. First of all, I would like to know if you have read it. Do you have precise knowledge of the Spanish water plan or are you echoing other people’s positions and a political opportunism that could of course be risky? Secondly, I think that Mrs Sornosa should tell me where she has seen me saying that I said that the Spanish water plan might contradict the framework directive. The water plan is currently an open draft, in the process of consultation with all the parties concerned, although none of them has wanted to make use of this facility. It is therefore difficult for it to violate any directive, and therefore, any information either for or against this – such as some that has appeared in the press – is absolutely unwarranted. This is what I interpreted from the Commission’s position and what I have maintained throughout. I never said anything else, Mrs Sornosa. There has also been talk in this debate about the matter of alternative plans and desalination plants. Unfortunately, I cannot answer all of that in detail due to lack of time. Our group has decided to abstain from the vote for the following reasons: Firstly, because an amendment has been tabled proposing that the Commission’s proposal be rejected by Parliament and because we do not believe that this proposal responds to this Parliament’s minimum expectations. The PPE-DE’s amendment was rejected by a margin of 11 votes, and we therefore feel it is coherent with our initial position to abstain from the final vote on the text. Secondly, our group considers it necessary to abstain because its two amendments on time limits for the end of marketing and for the end of experimentation have not been accepted. Since our group is in favour of setting dates, both for the end of marketing and for the end of experimentation, we consider it appropriate to extend the deadlines proposed by the rapporteur in such a way that the prohibition of marketing will take place within ten years of the approval of the revision and the prohibition of experimentation will be delayed by two years, in the event that alternative available methods are not found for cases in which ingredients, or mixtures of ingredients, may cause serious dermatological or ocular damage – Mr President, Commissioner Wallström, we thank you for being here at this time in the evening. The Community Eco-management and Audit Scheme is not exactly the most popular of the environmental issues but, nevertheless, it is a fantastic instrument for making progress in the field of integrating economic activities and the preservation of the environment. By adopting a system of environmental management, companies – whether they be industrial or service companies – learn to integrate environmental considerations into the normal management of the company, discovering the many and significant advantages, not only environmental but also economic, which this offers them, amongst other things, because they improve their competitive position. It therefore seems to me very significant that this regulation is currently being reviewed and that new elements are being incorporated into it which are extremely useful for the environmental improvement of processes, services and products. The creation of more incentives for European companies to have access to the system, the participation of interested parties – especially workers –, the strengthening of reliability vis-à-vis third parties and an increase in the transparency of information are the main objectives of the amendments which I took up on first reading in Parliament and which were approved unanimously in the Environment Committee. Nevertheless, the committee also approved certain amendments which were contrary to the opinion of the rapporteur, and I have continued to disagree with them. In this respect, I wish to refer to Amendments Nos 5, 6, 10 and 17, on the controversial issue of the use of the best available technology, as an instrument for environmental improvement, being obligatory for countries which wish to be included in the EMAS register. Let us remember that EMAS is a voluntary market instrument. Let us remember also that one of the main objectives of the current revision of the regulations is to make the system more accessible to small and medium-sized businesses and also the service sector. Let us add that until now the initiative has been relatively successful when compared to the other alternative formula, the ISO 14.001 standard, which is more flexible in many ways than EMAS. Let us bear in mind that the best available technology, as defined by the Directive on Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control, is only applicable to large industrial plants and not to the service sector or to small and medium-sized businesses. In this light, I believe that you will agree with me when I say that, although I am absolutely in favour of development and progress with regard to the Directive on Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC), this is not the time, and EMAS is not the right instrument, to demand that companies who want to join the scheme adopt the best available technologies. In fact, the large plants, as stipulated in the IPPC Directive, will continue to be obliged to be included in the EMAS register, since they will have to abide by the environmental legislation in force – Amendment No 12 – which obviously includes compliance with the IPPC Directive in the cases where companies are affected. I would also like to insist on Amendments Nos 41 and 50, which my Group would be prepared to accept as long as it is made clear that the word ‘representatives’ refers to people chosen as such within each company and in no event to organisations, whose participation would hinder and delay the process of adopting the system. I hope that tomorrow other groups will offer oral amendments in this respect. There are two other amendments which I would like to comment on: Amendment No 19, for which I have requested a separate vote up to the paragraph which reads “public structures and public contracts”, up to this point leaving the Commission’s text intact. I believe that the Commission is preparing – and in this sense I would be grateful for a comment from Mrs Wallström – a proposal on the inclusion of the environmental principle as a necessary consideration when awarding public contracts, and I therefore think it appropriate to await the approval of that proposal. With regard to Amendment No 22, on the incorporation of the Commission, the Council and Parliament, within a period of four years, into the EMAS system, I have consulted the Commission in writing and I would like the Commissioner to reply to it. Lastly, Amendment No 25 refers to the harmonisation of EMAS with the ISO standard, which is very important to the dissemination of each instrument, and we are very happy with the harmonisation agreement relating to them. – Mr President, I believe that the objective of achieving greater protection for the consumer in relation to tobacco consumption is absolutely shared by all of us. To this end, it also seems to me to be fair and beyond all doubt that the tobacco industry will have to adapt to stricter conditions of manufacture, presentation and sale, such as those proposed by this directive. In this respect, I congratulate Mr Maaten on his work. Nevertheless, we cannot put the cart before the horse if we want this work to succeed. The reality is that Europe produces and exports tobacco and, furthermore, its cultivation is subject to significant subsidies. As has been pointed out, this does not just involve the interests of the large multinationals. It involves the legitimate and fair way of life of hundreds of modest families. If we wish to prohibit these subsidies, let us prohibit them, but not without truly seeking alternatives which are proven to be viable. With regard to exports, it seems logical that the European Union should apply the same levels of content for cigarettes for consumption within the internal market as for those intended for exports. In this respect, a proposal of time limits may seem logical. However, we cannot deny or forget the authority of each state to manage the risks within its own society. If we believe that we can and must teach someone something, we must do so firstly – and this has been said here – through education and increasing awareness and not through an imposition which has dubious results as an instrument for reducing the consumption of tobacco. – Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that the unfortunate incident involving the  should in fact, as others have said this afternoon, constitute a decisive watershed which will see the end to this type of accident in the European Union where, since 1967, there have been seventeen accidents involving large oil tankers; more than one every two years. The economic and social damage, which we have spoken about today, in terms of the loss of jobs and fishing and tourist resources, is so great that they fully justify decisive and thorough action on the part of the Community institutions. Commissioner, I would also like to thank you for the speedy response of your department to this event and the measures which are being adopted and implemented. I trust that these measures will, in a few months, give rise to a clear and convincing legal instrument – a directive, possibly – which will put an end, once and for all, to these 21st Century pirates, who deprive us all of the wealth and beauty of the sea. I would like to comment on one of the measures to be taken, which was mentioned by the Commissioner and some of my colleagues. I am referring to the double hull, which consists of two layers of steel, with containers divided into two tanks. Commissioner, there are many experts who consider that the double hull is not sufficiently safe and propose the so-called ‘ecological hull’ in which case, in the event of an accident, the seawater penetrates the containers and, as a result of pressure, the oil is transferred to other tanks. Commissioner, I believe that it is time to opt for the safest technically possible measures. It is therefore not sufficient to merely reproduce the legislation in force in other countries. I believe that we can and must improve the existing legislation in this regard. Any cost-benefit analysis which truly takes into account all the harm occasioned to persons and the environment by these accidents, is bound to support this approach. – Mr President, I think that we need to make the requirements for the manufacture and sale of tobacco tougher and that to do so in a harmonised fashion, by means of a directive which must be respected by all the Member States, could strengthen the objective of preventing consumers from taking up smoking and of protecting them from this habit. Nevertheless, I truly consider it to be unacceptable to interpret the differences in criteria with regard to the content of the proposal for a directive in terms of a supposed confrontation between the powerful interests of the tobacco lobbies and the common interest of protecting consumers. To accept this would be to misrepresent the legitimate arguments of a good number of Members of the European Parliament who see, in the need to respect the legal aspects, a guarantee of the future viability of our own legislative acts. If we believe that we need common rules which are legally binding in order to better protect the public’s health from the risks of tobacco, let us seek a way of doing so, without using loopholes in the law, without back doors through which our good intentions may escape. Public opinion cannot and must not be fed solely by political gestures which are not solidly based in the reality of what is possible within the competences conferred on us by the Treaties. – Mr President, the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision which we are debating must be understood within the broader framework of the Directive on water, since its immediate objective is to limit and reduce the pollution of the European aquatic ecosystem, by classifying 32 substances on the list of priority substances, of which only 11 are included in the legal category of hazardous priority substances. In my opinion, the list of hazardous priority substances appearing in the annex of the Commission’s proposal should not be altered, and it is necessary to keep it as the Commission drew it up. In order to achieve a consensus with regard to classification, cooperation between the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council is, of course, essential. In my opinion, only on the basis of the work carried out by the Commission in this field will we be able to create a system of classification which applies clear and comprehensible criteria for the identification of substances. We are all agreed on the desire to eradicate water pollution as soon as possible and to this end we must implement a double strategy: in the international field, the ratification of international commitments, especially the OSPAR and COMMPS conventions, although we do not consider it appropriate to expressly mention these agreements in the text of the proposal; at the level of the Member States, to guarantee that the Commission be provided with the necessary means for it to have exact knowledge of the situation of our water masses, so that it can monitor, in a detailed and constant way, the comparable situation between Member States in terms of the development of the quality of our waters. Furthermore, it is important to encourage the future Member States of the Union to combat pollution by taking on board the European objectives, especially those countries which share river basins with the European Union. Finally, I would like to highlight the exceptional circumstances of certain substances, such as Cadmium and Mercury, whose complete eradication is not possible at the moment, as indicated in Amendment No 2 of the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. – Mr President, Commissioner, I agree that the most important difficulty with this directive is the diversity of criteria with regard to the establishment of target levels and time-scales for the reduction of the ozone concentrations in the atmosphere: the famous items 2 and 3 of annex 1. We in the Group of the European People’s Party consider it necessary to support the main lines set in the Commission’s proposal, especially with regard to target levels, which coincide with the guidelines of the World Health Organisation on air quality and which establish the permissible concentrations of ozone at 120 µg/m3. Nevertheless, it seems to us to be inadvisable to accept the amendments which make 2010 the time limit, the only one in the short term, and set 2020 as the time limit for long term objectives. In this respect, we think it is essential to allow for greater flexibility with regard to the periods of adaptation to the said target levels, given the real difficulty of controlling ozone concentrations when setting figures purely on the basis of the existence of previous data, as is constantly seen in certain climatic conditions, especially, as has just been mentioned, in the Mediterranean countries. Our Group therefore vigorously defends Amendments Nos 26 and 28, which establish a progressive and realistic achievement of the proposed objectives, by means of a progressive scale according to the number of days in a year the target levels can be exceeded. However, we consider very positive the amendments on the countries which are candidates for accession to the European Union, so that they may participate as soon as possible in the achievement of the Union’s objectives – and we congratulate Mrs Davies on this initiative – and it also seems important to us that the action plans are of a local nature and that the possibilities for reducing ozone concentrations are studied on a case by case basis. I believe that a vote in favour of the amendments proposed by the European People’s Party is a vote for progress in the control and monitoring of one of the most serious pollutants to date, initiating, in a decisive and homogenous way, in all the Member States, actions for its elimination as a threat to the health of persons and ecosystems, without deluding ourselves as to the real possibilities of completely eradicating it in the short term. – Mr President, the climate change policy is an open process in which the Member States all share certain final objectives and recognise certain instruments which will make this process a reality. One of them is undoubtedly the trading of emissions allowances. The directive intended to harmonise this instrument has clearly demonstrated the significant political support for this initiative and has reaffirmed the European Union’s leadership in terms of the implementation of market instruments, which will undoubtedly change the way business is done in Europe. It has also, however, revealed difficulties and, above all, question marks over certain specific points which are essential to guaranteeing the success of the system. In this regard, the innovative nature of the mechanism, for the majority of Member States, means that in the majority of cases it is approached from the point of view of learning by doingand that there are differences of opinion in terms of the best way to make its application a success. The rapporteur, Mr Moreira Da Silva, has been flooded with amendments which reflect, on the one hand, the interest, but also the doubts, that this instrument gives rise to, and which have meant that he has had to make an enormous effort to bring together opinions on such vital aspects as the method for allocation and the voluntary nature of the system. I believe that the approach would perhaps have been facilitated by maintaining a more differentiated treatment for the two periods into which the application of the directive is divided. The first period should be treated above all as a pilot experiment, for road testing and adapting the market, from which the necessary conclusions will be drawn with a view to fuller and more rigorous application during the second phase. If we do not want the system to fail we must, during the first stage, provide the Member States with a degree of flexibility, which would allow them to confront, above all, the transaction costs without prejudice to the competitiveness of companies and the operation of the internal market. In accordance with this objective, and for the sake of the future credibility of the system, I would argue that during the first stage the participation of companies should be promoted as much as possible, as well as flexibility in the adaptation of the States, which, as I have said, have transaction costs that differ considerably from one country to another. As we say in my country, ‘slow and steady wins the race’. In this regard, I believe that the early decision on the adjudication system, bringing in a system of auctions, is not the best solution; above all, committing 15% for the second period. The conditions for this period should only be established in the light of experience and the results of the first phase. With regard to the voluntary nature of the system, the compromise reached by the rapporteur, with the opting out formula, seems to me the most appropriate in terms of assisting companies, without thereby jeopardising the efficient operation of the system. In any event, I would reiterate that this directive should not be seen as a closed process, but as a direction we are beginning to take, which will have to be improved and updated in accordance with the circumstances of the Member States during its application. ,. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a directive which has involved complicated, extensive and heated debates within the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy in particular. We have tried to stress that cogeneration is not an end in itself but an energy efficiency measure and that this proposal, which pursues the Commission's strategy of increasing energy efficiency in the European Union, was well received but at the same time presented a series of problems, as the rapporteur, Mr Glante, pointed out at the outset. Then, by means of close dialogue and debate between various members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we presented a balanced proposal which was genuinely significant from the point of view of energy savings. As I said before, cogeneration based on heat demand will therefore allow us to optimise the situation in terms of greenhouse gases and balance the functioning of the electrical system. However, this whole building could have fallen down upon us if we had promoted an unnecessary demand for heat. Too simplistic an approach – such as the one I believe was proposed initially – would have led us to promote the construction of cogeneration plants without there being any real heat demand. And this would have been contrary to what we believed the objective of this proposal to be. I would like to congratulate Mr Glante and everybody who has participated in the various meetings which have taken place on this issue, because it was not an easy issue to understand. They include my colleague, Mr Vidal-Quadras, who has worked courageously on this directive. We have been through numbers, formulae, variables and subscripts and I believe we have finally managed to bring our points of view closer together. The compromise amendments represent good progress in terms of reaching a final agreement and it is significant that the existence of different technologies throughout the length and breadth of the European Union has been recognised. It is the case that the more heat a plant produces, the greater the global efficiency of the cogeneration process. But to reduce the whole directive to this statement is simplistic and unrealistic. A plant for the exclusive production of heat with an efficiency of 80% is entirely inefficient – I would even go as far as to say obsolete – but a plant for the production of electricity with an efficiency of 50% may be very efficient. And why is all of this the case? For the simple reason that electricity is a more elaborate form of energy which is obtained from heat. Once it is made clear that the global efficiency of the plant is not an appropriate or absolute parameter for determining the value of cogeneration, what are we left with? We are left – as I believe Mr Vidal-Quadras will also point out – with primary energy savings and consequently gas emissions savings. This is the most appropriate parameter for measuring the benefits derived from cogeneration, when compared to the separate production of heat and electricity. We must not forget an important point: that cogeneration has been developed in the different Member States according to cultural traditions. In the countries of the Centre and the North of Europe heat for municipal uses predominates, and it is obvious that heating and hot water needs are enormous during much of the year; in other latitudes a form of cogeneration in which the proportion of heat is lower has developed for obvious reasons, and therefore electricity for industrial uses predominates. The remainder is sold on the network. Mr Glante has been able to see that this proposal required a profound analysis before reaching definitive conclusions. However, as draftsman for the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I must say that this was not the case in this committee and that the opinion it approved, in the light of what is being proposed today, following the debates and meetings which have taken place, lacks realism and rigour. The complexity of this issue was demonstrated a moment ago and I, as rapporteur supported by my group, requested a more flexible timetable. In other words, I asked that this proposal be debated seriously and that there might be more time to compare our differing opinions with the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. This request was denied and the proposal was voted on in a hurried fashion with the result that I am now describing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, amongst all of us, we must try to prevent situations such as this. An opinion cannot be drawn up in the way it has been drawn up in the case of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on cogeneration, which I fear is not an isolated case since it happens relatively often in Parliament. Finally, I believe we have produced a rigorous, proportionate and necessary proposal. I would therefore congratulate the rapporteur once again, and my colleagues in the Industry Committee, on their excellent work, and particularly on not accepting the first proposal and fighting to reach agreements on a proposal which satisfies everybody. Congratulations, Commissioner. – Mr President, Spain has supported and continues to support the policy of combating noise in general and in particular supports this Community directive, as well as the good work of Mr De Roo. Despite Spain’s will and interest in establishing Community rules on this issue, there is a basic problem which profoundly affects the way of life in Spain. This is the establishment of a nuisance factor for noise after 7.00 p.m., which the proposal for a directive calls the ‘evening’. The Commission proposal, in point 1 of Annex 1, intends to systematically add on five decibels for all noise created between 7.00 p.m. and 11.00 p.m. For climatic and cultural reasons, life in Spain is lived later than in many other parts of Europe. It is obvious that the nuisance which may be caused by noise between 7.00 p.m. and 11.00 p.m. varies according to the different ways of life in each place. In Spain and in many Mediterranean countries, the normal day extends considerably later than the 7.00 p.m. indicated in the directive. I will therefore not hide the fact that it will be very difficult for my country to accept the Commission’s proposal, unless it incorporates a sufficient mechanism for flexibility so that we can maintain the way of life that we inherited from our ancestors and, furthermore, which is so valued both by the Spanish themselves and by our foreign visitors. So far, the formulae for flexibility that have been proposed consist of transferring part of the four hours of the mandatory evening to siesta time. But this mechanism is of no use, since, unfortunately, people do not sleep siestas all year in Spain and it is not even slept in the whole of Spain. Elements of flexibility could be the option of reducing either the number of hours or the degree of nuisance which the proposal assigns to those evening hours. It would be the Member States who would determine the length of that period, according to their own customs. We therefore support Amendment No 48 by Mr Oomen-Ruijten and Mr Florenz. – Mr President, Commissioner, the vital importance of this directive in environmental and economic terms is clear. The European market in emissions allowances will provide the Member States with an effective instrument within their climate change policies to close the gap between the true situation in the field of polluting emissions and compliance with the Kyoto commitments, while creating the best possible cost-benefit relationship. The political importance of this directive is perhaps less obvious, but no less significant. European environmental policy is moving on from words to actions, from rules and principles to practice, linking the economy to the environment. This always creates uncertainty, resistance to change, apparent winners and losers and there is no doubt that this can be argued over, but I believe there are many more arguments to convince us, and to convince us that we are moving in the right direction, and to confirm that Europe, by means of directives such as this, is consolidating its determination to lead the process of achieving sustainable development. In this case we must thank the rapporteur, Mr Moreira da Silva, for the excellent work he has done. He has achieved agreements between positions which were initially very far apart and in the end we are going to avoid the need for conciliation by reaching an agreement with the Council which is satisfactory to both sides. Personally, as he knows, I have been very critical and I have been a great nuisance to him over some of the amendments approved at first and second readings, above all those which seemed to me to impose excessively rigid conditions on the Member States for the application of the directive and which made it difficult for each State to find and define the best way to fulfil its objectives. However, this agreement, which has been reached following long and difficult negotiations inside and outside Parliament and the Council, has lead to a much more open text, which is no less effective and is acceptable to everyone. We needed a directive which was sufficiently flexible to allow the Member States to be able to adapt their requirements and operation to the characteristics of their national policies. I believe it was a complicated task which has been successful. Mr Moreira, I hope that tomorrow we will be able to congratulate you and take pleasure in having been able to successfully take such an important step towards practice in the environmental field. – Mr President, firstly, I would like to express my great satisfaction with this initiative, which is clearly an important step in the direction of transparency of information with regard to the environmental characteristics of cars and, in this respect, it will aid consumer choice. Nevertheless, I would like briefly to refer to the factor which gives rise to this directive: the energy efficiency of cars. This doubled, effectively, between 1973 and 1986. Consumption decreased, during this period, from 17.8 to 8.7 litres per 100 kilometres. During this same period, the stricter provision of equipment contributed to a 4% saving and the use of a lighter chassis led to the remaining 96%. Nevertheless, since 1986, fuel efficiency has increased by a mere 10%. In our opinion, this is due to the fact that technological development systems used in the car industry impede global improvements in the product as a result of the high level of specialisation of companies’ R and D laboratories. These laboratories – which are often physically a long way from each other and lack a coordination and communication strategy between them – invest a lot in improving very specific features of cars, and very little in improving the car as a system for moving from one place to another. To this end – and since directives such as the one which we are discussing today have been very well received – I believe that the European Parliament must promote and support initiatives which are aimed at an integrated product policy in which the R and D in design, in this case of cars, receives all the attention it deserves. I believe that unless we deal with production in an integrated way, that is, from the moment that the car’s raw materials are selected, through its manufacture, the production process, the use and finally the recycling and final disposal of the car when the buyer is no longer using it, we will never really manage to introduce measures which are genuinely significant in the field of reducing green-house gases. I think that only in this way will we ensure that the car stops squandering between 80 and 85% – just imagine! – of the energy before it even takes to the road. Therefore, I believe that this list we are talking about of the ten most efficient cars could also be, if we carry on like this, the list of the least inefficient, and in no sense will it be the list of the best. Mr President, Commissioner, the terrible accident involving the  off the coasts of Galicia and the enormous damage caused to the Galician people, to their land, their sea and their ecosystems, have received a vigorous response from the European Parliament and a practical one in the form of Mr Sterckx’s report. The one hundred and twelve measures proposed guarantee that things will be brought up to date, and provide for the actions necessary for us to free ourselves from the fear of serious and avoidable dangers such as the accident– and other previous ones – resulting from transporting dangerous cargoes under maritime safety conditions as precarious and shameful as those which led to the  and other previous accidents. We therefore need international and national measures, but above all we need the laws to be enforced and respected scrupulously from the outset. To this end, controls must be strict and sanctions vigorous. In this regard, I believe that Amendment No 12, presented by several Members on behalf of the PPE, calling for an examination of the application of the  and  packages is timely and complements the measures proposed in the Sterckx report, and furthermore to a certain extent is going to highlight the enormous support that the Commission, and in particular the Commissioner herself, has given to this issue. I do not believe that Amendment No 11 from Mr Sterckx improves his report. What it does is to get into a game which, as Mr Ripoll has just quite rightly pointed out, will come to an end the day the elections take place in Spain. We do not want to see any more accidents like this one. We want the environment to be respected and protected, since in many cases it provides the main source of economic and social stability for its people. We do not want to undermine the European Parliament’s right and duty of political control. The  accident was huge and tragic and must not happen again. But neither should other practices which day by day, drop by drop, pollute our seas, often in the face of inaction on the part of people who today are screaming blue murder. Mr President, the directive on ozone in ambient air is intended to provide a response to the problem of tropospheric ozone produced and trapped in the air around the earth’s surface which, as we all know, has damaging effects on both human health and on the planet’s vegetation, ecosystems and on the environment as a whole. The concentration of ozone, as we know, is due to the accumulation in the atmosphere of precursor agents, but there is no easy solution, of course, to eradicating them, because these precursor agents sometimes act to reduce ozone in the atmosphere. Various measurements taken at national level have shown that, in climatic conditions such as high luminosity and a stable atmosphere, reducing the precursor agents does not produce the desired effect of reducing the concentration of ozone. In fact, it does the complete opposite. Therefore, the solution to the problem of ozone concentration is extremely complex and simply shutting off the sources that generate precursor agents is not an appropriate measure. An example of this would be closing down a factory chimney that emits smoke, which is a precursor agent of ozone, into the atmosphere. The rapporteur and various members of the Committee on the Environment – including myself – have been working intensely for almost two years to both improve the Commission’s proposal, which was undoubtedly necessary, and also to achieve a balanced proposal that would ensure maximum compliance by the Member States. Lastly, in October, a joint text was produced, which was then approved by the Conciliation Committee. I should like to emphasise a very positive aspect of the proposal that has been adopted, which is the combination of long-term objectives with a short-term approach to these high-risk situations, and all the measures designed to ensure rigorous control and monitoring of ozone levels in the atmosphere in all Member States. I also think it is important to apply the principle of transparency where information is concerned, since the population must be more and better informed about the incidences of ozone levels in the atmosphere. Another important aspect is the consideration of meteorological conditions and comparisons between the various Member States, which must lead to information being provided so that we can monitor developments in this issue in the various Member States. This directive represents a major step in the right direction, providing a balanced approach to the problem of contamination and, together with the directive on national emission ceilings, we feel that these will genuinely prove to be very important tools with which we can address environmental problems and especially the problem of contamination in a cross-functional way. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, water is a commodity to which every human being should have access, but it is also a scarce resource whose efficient use by all is becoming increasingly crucial. Pricing policy is one way, therefore, in addition to the other instruments included in the framework directive on water, in which we can move closer to this objective. It is important, therefore, that a price should be put on water and that this price reflects, as accurately as possible, its cost to the environment, the cost of supply and the cost of resources used. It is equally important that a water pricing policy should take account of the social function of water, and of the need to consider climatic, geographical and regional aspects when the terms of such a policy are fixed. It is possible, and, I would even say crucial, to make efficient and environmentally-aware water management compatible in all Member States with respect for the form of water resource management that each Member State feels is best suited to its needs. The European Parliament should, therefore, support all the methods proposed in the communication aimed at achieving a more efficient use of water, and acknowledge that an appropriate pricing system is an important instrument in achieving this. However, we should strongly reject any proposal for intervention in a Member State’s water resource management policy. Firstly, because this goes entirely beyond the remit of the communication, and secondly, because it goes against the spirit and the letter of the framework directive. We should not forget, when talking about costs and their recovery, about the terms in which this concept is fixed in the framework directive, in which establishing a pricing system that involves the maximum recovery of costs is advocated, leaving the criteria to each Member State, and with regard to the aspects that have already been mentioned – also in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, for the concrete fixing of prices in each case. When we talk about the integrated recovery of costs, therefore, this recovery should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the framework directive, which is the only legislation in force on this matter in the European Union. –  Mr President, I think that in this final debate, before voting on this regulation, the following points must be stressed:  My country, Spain, fully enters into the spirit of the Montreal Protocol and is committed to fulfilling its terms in a completely responsible and active way. It accepts, in general terms therefore, the common position and in this sense, I fully agree with the intervention by my colleague Mrs Flemming.  Nevertheless, this is no obstacle to Spain, with its firm desire to carry out the eradication of the use of specific toxic substances that damage the ozone layer, which regards itself as being particularly affected by the banning of one of them, methyl bromide, which was referred to a while ago. This substance, which is used as an agricultural disinfectant mainly in clearly defined farming zones in the Mediterranean regions is already strictly limited in my country in terms of its marketing and use and has already been replaced in all cases for which suitable alternatives have been found. Work has been done for quite a while on investigating replacement substances in order to meet the deadline laid down in the Protocol.  Precisely because we want to comply with the standard, we have to be very careful when it comes to weighing up our ability to do so, if Parliament approves a regulation that makes the conditions and the time-scales tougher. It would be more honest and above all more practical to state clearly that we see that there is a possibility that we will not be able to comply where methyl bromide is concerned. At the very least this will cause us to suffer serious financial and social consequences and the competitiveness of some of our agricultural products will be damaged in relation to other countries that do not apply the same restrictions. We will not be able to ensure that the use of methyl bromide stops by shortening the time-scales. Instead, we run the risk of unwillingly failing to comply and the possibility of fraud which will produce the opposite result to the one we all want to see.  Therefore, the Spanish delegation of the European People’s Party feels that it is necessary to uphold in the plenary sitting the amendments relating to the first paragraph of Article 3(2) and the last paragraph of Article 21 in which the exceptions and conditions for the use of methyl bromide after 2006 are specified. We think that Parliament must set standards that all Member States should be able to fulfil without experiencing serious damage to their economic, social and environmental conditions. It is this spirit, not an emotionally praiseworthy but unrealistic environmental good will, which leads us to put forward these amendments today. – Mr President, Mr Arvidsson, I fully appreciate the work which you have done on this report. I would like to concentrate here on the application of the precautionary principle and on the difficulties in this case of dealing with an issue on which scientific considerations are confused and mixed up with emotional considerations, as well as a long history of disagreements between the industry of PVC and its derivatives and the environmental lobby, which, of course, is also deeply involved with this issue of phthalates. We are talking about risks to children’s health. This is of interest to all of us, certainly. However, we must not forget that we are also talking, with reasonable certainty, about the harmful effects of six phthalates, and also, with a degree of uncertainty, of the other substances belonging to this group. To ban all of them, as a precaution, may not be a good decision since this may mean abandoning an area of research which is being pursued at the moment, in order to opt for substitutes whose harmful effects we know even less about. In this respect, there is one good example: four years ago, given the opinion that silicon implants may be carcinogenic, several countries adopted an alternative substance for their manufacture based on soya oil. A few days ago the United Kingdom banned these implants and is gratuitously withdrawing existing stocks, having discovered that they are carcinogenic. The social and health cost of a hasty decision may be medically and economically irreparable. The scientific evidence demanded in Amendments Nos 11, 13 and 24 seem to me to be absolutely necessary in any event, but especially in the case of this type of issue where lives are at stake and where we are likely to punish or benefit certain production sectors. – Mr President, the situation regarding fresh water in Europe is not as serious as in other parts of the world but, in general terms, it is a fact that the demand for water has continued to grow and its quality has continued to decrease. To this we must add the water pollution problems which afflict the potential new Member States in the East. In fact, a reservoir containing cyanide has just burst its banks in Romania, threatening aquifers which supply the population of Yugoslavia. I understand that Mrs Wallström, whose presence here tonight I appreciate, is going to visit the area. I believe that no country, no government and, of course, no member of this Parliament can fail to recognise the need for this directive in order to end the current fragmentation of water policy and facilitate the implementation of a programme of specific measures for each river basin. The development of this directive has been difficult and complex, involving diverse interests and divided opinions. I have no doubt that the rapporteur for this legislature, Mrs Lienemann, has made great efforts and shown great dedication in reconciling positions, and has succeeded to a large extent. However, it is almost impossible to understand and correctly assess all the different situations and expectations. I come from a country whose southern half is on the Mediterranean and the availability of water historically depends on the whims of an unpredictable climate and a difficult terrain. The Mediterranean region has had to fight for its development by trying to overcome this adversity, century after century, year after year, day after day, and is still doing so today. Therefore, it seems essential to us that the directive complies, in practice, with the obligation laid down in article 164 of the Treaty on the need for Community legislation to take account of the diversity of its regions. In accordance with this principle, the Spanish delegation of the European People’s Party will oppose Amendments Nos 4 (Recital 21), 13 and 49 (Article 11(d)), since they imply a serious limitation in an area of management exclusive to the Member States, that is, the regulation of water resources. It would be very difficult for the Community to determine the conditions for the regulation of water in the different regions, given the different internal balances which are always in play and which require profound knowledge of the different areas and the relevant interests. We also reject the amendments which aim to incorporate the integral cost of water for 2010. We must clearly set water prices which promote its efficient use but which, at the same time, safeguard the competitivity of the producing industries in the less-favoured regions and do not hinder their legitimate development. I would lastly like to refer to the amendments on dangerous substances which establish that we must achieve a zero, or close to zero, degree of pollution. In no field of human activity have we ever discovered a zero degree of pollution. We will be doing a general disservice to the objectives of this important directive if we are not able to provide it with the necessary flexibility and adaptability to guarantee compliance with its provisions. I hope that, once again, this House will vote with a sense of reality and respect for the principle of subsidiarity, seeking a suitable balance between the environmental objectives and economic and social considerations, the three essential elements in achieving the sustainable development which we all wish to see so much. – Mr President, it is clear that the increasing mobility of Europeans, tourism and, let us face it, bathing habits, mean that the beaches of Europe, the beaches of my country, Spain, which 50 years ago were half empty, have now filled up. Not only with tourists, either: the local people also bathe on their beaches, something they did not do 50 years ago. All of this means that the citizens of Europe aspire to having the same quality of bathing water, regardless of the country or location they are swimming in. I therefore believe that the Commission is right to propose – and of I believe it is extremely timely – this greater control of bathing waters, better information for users and also improvements in the quality of those waters in cases where it is advisable or necessary. The relationship between risks of various infections and water quality has been demonstrated beyond all doubt. If, therefore, by means of this directive we can contribute to reducing the risk of contracting infections or other types of illness, our efforts will have been worthwhile. Having said this, however, I believe that here also we must apply a cost-benefit analysis and not try to use a sledgehammer to crack nuts. In this regard, there are certain aspects of certain amendments to this directive which I believe to be entirely out of context and unnecessary. One of them is the issue of physical and chemical parameters: they are not important in terms of water quality; only microbiological parameters are important. The rest is an aesthetic issue, but not a health issue. Introducing these parameters would enormously complicate the application of the directive and, furthermore, would make the framework directive which already deals with these issues redundant. With regard to information, I believe it is absurd and unacceptable to indicate the specific languages in which the information must be provided. I believe that each Member State will indicate the language or languages appropriate for this purpose. Finally, on another issue which has been debated, in relation to parameters, I entirely agree with the use of those parameters indicated by the WHO and I fully support my group’s position. – Mr President, in order to construct a Europe which respects the environment, it is a political and legislative priority to ensure that the business community is fully involved in the task of environmental protection. In this context, the directives we are discussing today are essential legislative instruments which contribute to preserving our environment by persuading businesses in the sector to internalise the cost of certain environmental impacts and to adopt a committed position without abandoning their market objectives. Mr Florenz’s work is commendable and I must congratulate him on it, since he has managed to create some proposals for directives which find a balance between the interests of consumers, the environment and businesses in the sector, interests which are very difficult to combine. I would like to mention the Member States’ obligation to achieve a recovery rate of six kilos per inhabitant, since I believe we should take account of the existing differences between the Member States. It is clear that Germany, for example, does not produce the same amount of residue as other countries, such as Greece, Portugal or Spain. Furthermore, the lifespan of each piece of equipment is significantly different between Member States, which exacerbates that problem. I would like to repeat that it is appropriate to apply an implementation co-efficient to the recovery obligation in order thereby to balance and harmonise the obligation, depending on the Member State in question. I would also like to highlight the importance of Article 7, which deals with financial responsibility. For the sake of greater fairness, individual financial responsibility seems logical, but I very much agree with the solution contained in the report of leaning towards individual responsibility without closing the door to the application of collective responsibility in certain cases. With regard to the exceptions for lead solder, I believe that it should be maintained, because I believe that the use of substitutes could create a greater environmental problem or jeopardise consumer safety. Mr President, an accident such as the Aznalcoyar accident – which took place in my country in 1998 – plus almost 300 000 sites identified as definitively or potentially polluted in the European Union  they have been pointed out by Mrs Niebler  are direct examples of the need for effective rules at European Union level to make the ‘polluter pays’ principle a reality. I understand and share the concern to make progress in environmental terms while at the same time maintaining the economic good health of companies, although I believe that is an argument which is used too often and which often does not respond to the reality of the effort companies can and must make in order to conform to this and other Community legislation. I believe that the common position would have achieved, or has achieved in fact, a satisfactory balance between legal certainty, environmental protection and industrial development. However, I believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, despite having done good work, is tomorrow presenting certain amendments – such as No 9 and No 16 – which excessively weaken the common position and which I cannot support. We cannot accept that the mere fact of complying with legal activities should be a licence to fail to comply or to be able to act irresponsibly. If measures such as these are applied  such as those proposed in these amendments  accidents such as the Aznalcoyar accident would once again go entirely unpunished in whichever country they took place. I would, however, like to point out that I support Amendment No 46, since I believe that, otherwise, we would further weaken the system of environmental responsibility in certain types of maritime transport, which I believe to be important. With regard to the issue of financial guarantees, I believe that it improves the Commission’s proposal – which did not provide for them – but that it has not been either as ambitious as initially hoped or as concrete as it could have been. I understand the need to give companies a period for adaptation and I hope, of course, that they will do so as soon as possible. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no question that at this time of disappointment and rejection for the European Union given the attitude of the United States towards compliance with the Kyoto commitments, the European Parliament must unequivocally reaffirm and reinforce its commitment to making progress on the reduction of CO2 emissions through the ratification of the measures proposed in the protocol. Having agreed in 1997 on an international strategy for reducing polluting emissions, we cannot accept such a drastic and important change in approach towards the situation, which gives credence to arguments which, under a scientific veneer, intend to postpone the intensity and force of specific actions. Furthermore, I believe that this proposed resolution is a necessary gesture by the European Parliament towards the Member States as an expression of the renewal of a political will in each of them to combat climate change and to intensify the establishment of the mechanisms necessary for the ratification of the protocol. At the next climate summit in Bonn, the Member States will have to respond to the key points which were left unresolved at The Hague. I believe it is essential that at least the leader or ‘vice-leader’ of the parliamentary delegation should be accepted as part of the European Union’s negotiating team. Therefore, and in order to take the next step of negotiating with other countries a rapid ratification of the protocol, it is so important that this Parliament should unite in supporting the present proposal, renewing, as I have said, the European Union’s will for international leadership in the field of the environment and as a gesture towards the Member States, so that they do not forget or delay the implementation on a national level of the measures necessary for the ratification of the protocol. – Mr President, my group is going to vote in favour of Mr Miranda’s report on building an effective partnership between the European Union and the United Nations in development and humanitarian aid policies. I would personally like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for incorporating all the amendments that my group tabled for the original draft. In his report, the rapporteur advocates the need for more effective participation from the Union in coordinating its initiatives with the United Nations, not only on political matters and in decision-making, but also from an operational point of view and in managing projects and specific activities. In one of our amendments, which were incorporated into the text, we asked for that operative intervention to take place from the very start when selecting projects, so that the general direction of aid coincides, as far as possible, with the European Union’s objectives in terms of development aid. This should happen even more given that the economic and financial contribution from the Union is significant in terms of quantity and that its contribution in terms of material and human resources is just as significant in terms of quality. This coordination must take place through increasing multilateral institutional political dialogue and through greater cooperation to improve the criteria for ensuring that development aid, whether bilateral or multilateral, is supplementary and complementary. That would not be possible without establishing a stable financial framework for relations between the European Union and the United Nations. In this respect, I would like to highlight the achievements of the recent Monterrey Summit, to which President Fox referred. It is true that in some respects the results of Monterrey can be described as inadequate, but it is just as true that there were steps forward, especially on the part of Europe, as specific commitments were reached on quantifying aid and on a timetable. However, I must say that we are far from the 0.7% that we committed to and which we cannot give up on. With the resources available it will not be possible to achieve the objective of eradicating poverty in the world by 2015, which we are committed to, and that is unacceptable. I would like to finish, Mr President, by saying that some of the amendments tabled by my group are aimed at making aid more effective and at better management of procedures and greater transparency in the use of resources, as advocated by the Spanish President of the Council when he spoke to the Committee on Development and during Mr Aznar’s speech at the Monterrey Summit. . – Mr President, I must confess I was pleased to see you come in, because I was practically under the impression that I was going to be the only person in the Chamber. I would also like to thank the Commissioner, who, after a hard day, is here with us this evening. The Green Paper on an integrated product policy should, in my opinion, be the framework for the formulation of a series of guidelines and proposals that will enable both producers and consumers to make full use of the instruments and opportunities offered by the market to be able to make it function in a way that is better adapted to the practice of sustainable development. This new approach needs to be an improvement on the traditional approach that the European Union has been following up to now, which is essentially based on encouraging environmental improvement in the production sector through standards that establish limits for pollution and also through voluntary instruments that promote the differentiation of companies and products that incorporate environmental improvements. We have to admit, with regard to these voluntary methods, which have been implemented since the early nineties, such as the co-determination regulation, European eco-audits and the ecolabel, that these have not been as successful as had been hoped and, above all, have not been implemented in a similar fashion in all Member States. Only 3 200 companies throughout Europe have obtained EMAS certification and only 350 products from 70 companies have these European ‘ecolabels’. In my opinion, the main cause of this situation lies in the rigidity of the system and the still weak consumer demand for ‘green’ products. The Commission, aware of this problem, has presented this Green Paper on integrated product policy, with varying degrees of wisdom and balance. It has been widely discussed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, but I, naturally, maintain that the Commission has shown considerable dedication to the matter. Various mechanisms have been proposed with the aim of stimulating the necessary environmental improvement of products and their consumption. The proposal contains a series of suggestions that would facilitate the implementation of different policies and market instruments that go further than those that focus exclusively on the environment and that, I think, will make it easier for a future White Paper to be more detailed and better developed. We are faced with the need to adopt a decisive approach to stimulate environmental improvement in the EU market, which will allow products to be given prices that are fairer from an environmental point of view, to stimulate demand that is more appropriate and to make the use of instruments for clean production more widespread. Furthermore, I believe that this approach will give greater impetus to the integration of environmental policy in other areas, such as the economic or social areas, and with this we will be better able to fulfil the mandates of Cardiff and Gothenburg. Though the amendments that Parliament has tabled, it has brought a greater degree of precision and clarity to the Commission proposal with regard to the orientation of the IPP and also to the role of each of the actors – companies, public authorities and consumers – and has given very clear consideration to the issue of shared responsibility without this involving a decrease in producers’ responsibility, but instead taking into account and also putting an emphasis on the responsibility of both public authorities and consumers. Public authorities, for example, can provide a very important boost for a more environmentally friendly market though public procurement. They can also point out useful market instruments to put the IPP into practice: economic instruments, such as tax incentives, for example. Similarly, the Parliament text highlights the importance of an improved and enhanced eco-label, the need to improve European standardisation processes, the need to set parameters and indicators that are simple to apply and similar in all Member States for the lifecycle of products, not forgetting the need not to endanger free competition in the market or in European companies. The text also highlights the crucial role of information, which should be clearer, more truthful and easy to understand. I think that I have accounted for the majority of amendments tabled in Plenary. I have accepted them and I have only rejected those that I feel do not fit into the framework or context of a Green Paper. In my opinion, this is a good proposal that deserves all our support. – Mr President, with regard to the accession of Cyprus, we should be pleased by the result of the vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: 55 in favour and just 2 against. This demonstrates the excellent work of negotiation and consensus carried out by the rapporteur and the cooperation of the whole committee on this report which was not devoid of difficulties, owing, above all, to the occupation of part of the island by Turkey and the stalemate in the dialogue between the Turkish and Cypriot Governments. My group has wanted to promote a text which does not hinder or compromise a renewal of the negotiations between both sides, but quite the opposite, one which motivates and speeds up the process of resolving the problem which is undoubtedly seeing a change of attitude from the Turkish Government. We are in favour of approving the report with the amendments presented by our Group which reflect its concern at the political division of the island, supporting, in this respect, the efforts of the United Nations to reestablish the conversations and urging the conflicting sides to achieve a resolution to the problem as soon as possible, for the good of all the citizens of Cyprus. Cyprus has now closed 22 chapters in the negotiation and presents itself as a firm candidate for accession. However, intense work will have to be done on the incorporation of the Community , especially in terms of compliance with environmental legislation, where significant shortcomings in the areas of waste management and water quality and management have been noted. Cyprus must also make progress on putting a stop to its macroeconomic deterioration, as well as on the control of capital movements. Nevertheless, we insist that a unified Cyprus would be the best guarantee of peace, security and prosperity for the region. – Madam President, I did not request the floor earlier because I did not think that I needed to explain the reasons why our group considers it unnecessary, at the moment, to propose a resolution on an issue which, as has been pointed out, falls within the competence of the Member States, in other words, the regulation of water resources. Furthermore, I have just heard a completely uncalled-for comment which assumes that a Member State’s hydrological plan – which has not yet been implemented, which is at a stage of open planning, and which is still subject to new suggestions and development – violates a framework directive. I am absolutely convinced – and this is also expressed in Commissioner Wallström’s reply to an oral question on this issue – that the Spanish Government’s hydrological plan does not only comply with all aspects of the framework directive, but that it respects it absolutely, and the framework directive will be an essential complement to the successful implementation of our plan. Therefore, because this is entirely an issue involving the management of resources by a Member State, I consider a resolution to be completely unnecessary. – Mr President, how can we preserve our resources and improve environmental health and social well-being in a balanced manner, without affecting any of the three pillars of sustainable development? The Gothenburg Summit will try to provide an answer to these questions and will demonstrate the maturity and political capacity of our governments to deal with the challenge of a new order of peace and prosperity for the twenty-first century. The first step consists of severing the link between economic growth and the intense use of resources and unwanted effects such as pollution. In this context, I believe that we should welcome the reports by Mrs Hulthén and Mr Blokland. To turn the European economy into the most competitive and dynamic economy, based on knowledge and not on the intensive use of resources, will require a better and greater use of market instruments in order to achieve greater levels of efficiency for our procedures and products, but will also require other factors to be taken into account simultaneously. If we want to eliminate forever the spectre of the loss of competitiveness or the threat of industrial conflict in Europe, we need more than ever, and urgently, to move ahead in a way which is uniform and coherent between all the Member States. It is even more important that we do so from a global point of view, by means of international agreements which resolve the legal and practical difficulties which face many of our legislative actions. We also need to establish realistic timetables which allow companies and society in general to adapt to the new market conditions and introduce the necessary reforms, thereby reducing the possibilities of unwanted effects if they are dealt with within too narrow a margin for manoeuvre. Lastly, I think it is essential, in order to successfully bring the process of change to a conclusion, to enjoy a broad social consensus which includes commitments with social operators and the gradual but firm replacement – of course – of the social values of the old order – based on the possession and accumulation of goods – with other values of a society which is ethically and civically more advanced, based on the enjoyment of the less materialistic aspects of life. – Commissioner, the concentrations of ozone in the atmosphere are a serious problem, not only in terms of the environment, but also in terms of public health, since they affect that health of the citizens, especially amongst risk populations such as children and old people, causing allergies and cardio-respiratory difficulties, amongst other things. Concentrations of ozone are very unevenly distributed amongst the Member States. And, owing to their cross-border nature, they affect places which are often far from their source of production. Until now, the Member States have neither studied nor dealt with this phenomenon sufficiently, neither have they assessed it in a systematic and coordinated way. The result has been an absence of reliable and comparable data, as well as insufficiency in short- and long-term action plans. It is therefore very necessary that we adopt the present Directive and I take a very positive view of Mr Davies’s work, especially his approach to the problem, since he stresses the aspects of study and control and is prepared to incorporate the suggestions of other groups, which means the House is able to vote on a proposal with significant compromise amendments, which enrich the Commission’s proposal and maintain the sense of reality and viability of the measures proposed. The first important result of this Directive is that it is finally going to persuade Member States to pay more attention to the problem of tropospheric ozone, strengthening its study and control; secondly, it makes it obligatory to create short- and long-term action plans and improve rapid alert systems and public information. In this respect, its seems to me important that these plans strengthen, in each case, the study of the local conditions in which the concentrations are produced, in order thereby to combat them more effectively. I also believe it is necessary to set target dates in order to stimulate progress on the control of the problem. Nevertheless, we cannot ignore the current difficulties in guaranteeing the complete control of the concentrations of tropospheric ozone and strict compliance at all times with the values and timescales laid down. Our Group has therefore insisted on the need to seek formulae which, while strengthening the Member States’ obligations, set realistic objectives and timescales, which allow a certain flexibility in those cases where its has been physically impossible to reach the objectives and which take account, in the comparative reports, of the meteorological and local circumstances of the places where the target values have been exceeded. We have logically opposed the amendments which do not take account of the scientific possibilities of controlling the problem. – Mr President, I would like to join in congratulating Mrs Emilia Franziska Müller on her excellent work on this directive. There are two principles that govern Community food legislation on which, fortunately, this directive is also based: food safety and the guarantee that the label provides adequate and correct information. It is essential that we remove any risk to the health of consumers caused by free choice, and ensure that they can make their choice based on accurate and clear information that does not lead to confusion or deception. Consumers must have access to clear instructions on the dosage and use of the product. In many cases, as had already been said, it has been found that ingesting some food supplements in excessive doses causes serious health problems. This is not acceptable, and we need to ensure, through Community legislation, that there is good, consistent information across all the Member States. Focusing on Article 2, both the work of Mrs Emilia Franziska Müller and that of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy as a whole provide a legal concept of a balanced food supplement. The scope of application is neither too limited nor so wide that it enables products that do not comply with what a food supplement is to come under the definition. With regard to Annex I, I think that, finally, the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which has been successively extended with compromise amendments, is correct and should be adopted by this House. With regard to Article 5, which sets out the maximum quantities of vitamins and minerals in food supplements, according to letters a), b) and c) of paragraph 1, I think it is necessary to keep these sections, as the approach that we should take in Europe should be strict, maintaining control of the maximum level of vitamins and minerals based on the maximum safe intake levels. On this point, I would support the idea that a European approach should opt for greater defence of consumers as opposed to an option of greater deregulation. In this respect I welcome the fact that we are 16 against 15. , . – Mr President, almost eight years have gone by since the appearance, in June 1993, of the Community regulation allowing voluntary participation by companies in a Community eco-management and audit scheme. This regulation, known by its acronym EMAS, opened up the use of market mechanisms in order for organisations to make a voluntary commitment to adopting a more pro-active approach to improving their environmental performance. Its success depended largely on the concept thriving that the environment can and should be part of business strategies as another factor which, as well as environmental safety, provides added value for the business itself. It represents a considerable change in mentality for the business world to consider respect for the environment more as a factor of competitiveness and progress, rather than as an annoying legal obligation, in many cases at heavy financial cost and with a questionable degree of appreciation of the effort on the part of consumers. This revised and updated regulation makes an important contribution to a modern environmental policy, in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, important for real improvement in the environmental behaviour of companies and also for the recognition of this improvement by others, particularly by consumers. During these eight years of practical application we have learnt various lessons. The first is its use as a market tool. Almost 3 100 industrial establishments across Europe have participated in this system, which is growing in numbers at a pace of nearly 50% per year. Despite this significant development, there is still potential for progress. The new regulation therefore incorporates several considerations facilitating participation by European companies in this environmental improvement system. It is worth highlighting the extension of the scope of application to all types of organisations, including the service sector, and the possibility of incorporating public administration, establishing incentives and special consideration by public administrations for certified companies when awarding public contracts, encouraging participation among small- and medium-sized enterprises, coordination between the European system and other international environmental certification systems. In this last aspect there has been considerable simplification and unification of nomenclature and requirements, which will provide significant clarification of the role that EMAS should play in the European context. Another of the lessons that we have learnt is the need to maintain and even increase the credibility of the system. This text has stepped up measures to ensure its quality and credibility, as well as public access to information. The role of the environmental statement is increasing, as is the work of the environmental verifiers, who have to check that organisations are complying with the requirements of this regulation. These requirements have also been strengthened by Parliament’s amendments, of which the following stand out: the obligation to comply with environmental legislation by participating companies, establishing more demanding standards for the qualification and training of the environmental verifiers who accredit the companies, public reports on the environmental performance of companies, with absolute credibility for third parties, greater involvement of the interested parties in the process of monitoring the environmental performance of companies and, in particular, of employees and users, extension of environmental responsibility, which goes beyond the company’s facilities, to include indicators of the performance of products and services, in line with the approach of the new environmental directives, and also an increase in the role of the coordinating bodies with the aim of facilitating the homogenous application of the system in the various Member States. In order to arrive at the results that I have just mentioned, I have to say that the conciliation procedure was extremely positive and interesting. We arrived at it with 24 amendments, of which only 4 were accepted without change and 3 were withdrawn in the course of the negotiations. 20 amendments were accepted on the basis of compromise formulations, which gives an idea of the intensity and the success of the negotiations. I would therefore like to thank the experts from Parliament, the Commission and the Council for the work that they did during that period, and the members of the Conciliation Committee for being willing to make a decided effort to strengthen this directive. I think that the European Parliament can consider the final result of the conciliation to be very satisfactory, given that the large majority of its amendments have been incorporated fully or in revised form into the joint text, and I therefore propose that it be approved tomorrow in Parliament at third reading. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I will use up the five minutes I am allowed, I will be considerably more brief than that, because the resolution we are debating at the moment and which we will probably vote for tomorrow very clearly describes a situation which only has one possible and correct technical and legal solution: to maintain this Parliament’s request that the Commission withdraw the proposal to postpone the entry into force of the Directive. As is explained in the resolution and as the rapporteur, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, has already explained, the Commission was empowered by the Council to postpone the entry into force of this measure, which it did by postponing the date of 1 January 1998 to 30 June 2000 and, subsequently, from 30 June 2000 to 30 June 2002. This postponement – as recital 10 of the Directive points out – should have been the last one. Parliament cannot therefore accept it since, as Mrs Roth-Behrendt has already said, the Commission’s proposal for a new directive postponing the entry into force of this measure – which, furthermore, has been in force since 30 June 2002 – is not legal. In June, the plenum of the European Parliament approved, on second reading, a modification – the seventh – of this Directive which laid down the prohibition of the marketing of products which have been tested on animals, five years after its entry into force. Currently, as has also been said, the process of modification for this sixth modification is being implemented and we are now on the seventh modification. It is clear – and the rapporteur knows this because we have talked about it many times and she agrees with it – that an immediate prohibition of the marketing of products tested on animals, which the application – which is already in force, I would remind you – of this sixth modification of the Directive would represent, would at this time involve difficulties in terms of compliance which are practically impossible to overcome. We know this, I believe that is the spirit guiding the conciliation on this Directive: to find a formula for agreement so that the industrial sector – the cosmetics sector – can comply with the new time limit which may be stipulated. This is how the conciliation debate is developing: finding a final time limit which allows the industry to adapt to the situation without harming competitiveness. However, while it is important to stress that we must find consensus during conciliation which provides a viable solution, this can in no way mean that the Commission is given the freedom to exercise a right which it does not legally have to order a further postponement of the entry into force of the said provision. Parliament cannot therefore accept the use of such an undemocratic procedure as comitology to deal with a modification that contradicts the decision of this Parliament and of Community legislation itself. And I also regret, Mrs Wallström, that it has been you who has had to endure this torrent of criticism of the Commission. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the seventh modification of the directive on cosmetic products has once again brought two issues before this Parliament which have been widely debated since the first directive was adopted in 1976. The last revision was the sixth, in 1993. The issues I am referring to are the prohibition of animal experimentation and the prohibition of the marketing within the European Union of products which have been tested on animals. The rapporteur, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, has worked hard and seriously, maintaining the coherence of the Commission’s text and improving it, particularly in view of the illogical proposal of lifting the prohibition on marketing. My group has always supported this amendment and has agreed with the rapporteur that, after so many years of work and unfulfilled expectations in relation to ending animal experimentation, we must deal with this issue once and for all, setting precise timescales, urging and motivating the cosmetics industry to mobilise all its available resources so that, without in any way jeopardising the safety of its products, experiments on animals will be stopped for good as soon as possible. The Group of the European Peoples’ Party, however, has always believed that full compliance with this directive made it necessary for the rapporteur’s initial proposal to show a degree of flexibility, while allowing for certain exceptions since, although it is true that the majority of cosmetic products offer the consumer complete safety without their ingredients having to be tested on animals, there are certain cases in which scientists have still not been able to find reliable alternative methods for particular products which are not totally superfluous, such as sun products or creams, which provide a degree of protection from sunlight. In this respect, the work not just of my group but of all the parliamentary groups has focused on the identification of these cases and their incorporation into the text of the directive, and the rapporteur has been highly receptive to this. Without allowing the cosmetics industry to delay eliminating its animal experimentation practices, the proposal for a directive allows exceptions for very specific tests and for a maximum period of ten years. Fortunately, I believe that this amendment has the support of the whole of the European Peoples’ Party and that, when it comes to it, it will have the support of the whole House. I am convinced that a vote in favour by the European Parliament, not just in relation to this amendment, but the whole of the proposal, will finally bring into being regulations which combine animal protection and consumer protection in a balanced and fair manner. – Mr President, noise pollution is, of course, a reality. Furthermore it is increasing in most countries of the European Union. It is aggressive not only to the hearing but also to the whole nervous system of citizens and in many cases it alters not only the personality, through reactions such as irritability and insomnia, but it also produces pain in the auditory system. I come from a southern country and to tell you the truth I have very often thought: ‘Who could silence that lawnmower next door! Who could make the traffic on this street quieter! Who could stop the music coming from that discotheque on the other side of the block from reaching my windows!’ And on all those occasions when a citizen such as me has said, ‘Why is there nothing or nobody that can stop this noise?’, it should be possible for most cases to be regulated, either by the local council, the residents association or the regional authorities. In other words, at a local level rather than a national level. As numerous speakers have said, realistically speaking, it seems to me that there are practically no cases in which noise, at the level most citizens suffer it, should be dealt with in a cross-border fashion. Airport noise has been mentioned, but it apparently affects 1.7% of the population of a country, while road traffic noise affects far more. It seems to me that to concentrate on airport noise and not deal on a local level with road traffic, in particular, is a rather absurd form of discrimination against airports. I am not going to go into that, however. Above all, I wanted to make it clear once again that there is a difference between the various countries of the European Union in terms of noise and perceptions of it. In this respect, Mediterranean countries are more noisy, we have a climate which allows us to be outdoors and, in this sense, eight o’clock in the evening is for us a time for socialising, to be out and to be professionally active. We could never approve or support a directive which discriminates against other people’s cultures in this way. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Vidal-Quadras, on his excellent work on this important directive. As he has pointed out, the European Union consumes more and more energy and therefore also imports more and more energy products, because our demand outweighs our capacity for supply by means of our own resources. It is therefore important firstly to diversify our sources of energy, by seeking new energy sources including, of course, renewable energy and furthermore we need to promote and pursue energy efficiency. I hope that Mr Vidal-Quadras has taken a favourable view of the opinion of the Environment Committee, since I believe that the points which we have highlighted within it contribute to enriching some of the aspects of his excellent proposal. I believe that a key reference for increasing the Member States’ receptiveness to the proposal is that account should be taken of local climatic and special conditions. Another point on which the Environment Committee has insisted is the homogenisation of building certificates in the different Member States, which would allow for comparisons of the energy efficiency achieved in each building. We also wanted to define those buildings which are excluded from the application of energy-saving measures and, also, in order that our proposal is not rejected, we have proposed, like Mr Vidal-Quadras, that we accept the Commission’s proposal aimed at reducing the area of the buildings affected. I am in favour of this approach, Mr Vidal, like my committee, but I also understand your position. I believe that we will have to wait and see what the final result is and we will have to respect it. The important thing is that the directive should go ahead, Mr Vidal-Quadras. – Mr President, I would firstly like to inform you that the correct version of Amendment No 33, signed by myself and Mrs Müller, is the English version. It appears that there has been an error in the translations. I am not going to get involved in the arguments for and against animal experimentation, which at this stage we all know and which, undoubtedly, together with the ban on sales and marketing, are the focus of this seventh amendment of the directive. I will say that, as shadow rapporteur, I have been able to note a clear majority opinion, in all the groups of this Parliament, in favour of banning both sales and marketing and experimentation. However, I feel I should mention the concern of some Members of this Parliament, most of whom are reputed scientists, who view with alarm the total ban on experimentation within the terms and time periods put forward in Mrs Roth-Behrendt’s amendments, since, according to her criteria, compliance with them could compromise the security of the product or impede progress in the field of scientific research into cosmetics. I believe that this is an opinion which should at least be taken into account and which we should try to incorporate into the text, since we must not forget that the aim of the legislator must be to establish a balance between two values: the safety of consumers and the protection of animals. In the quest for this balance we will have to take into account not only economic, socio-cultural and animal protection factors, but also scientific and legal factors. I completely agree with the rapporteur on the need to put an end to experiments on animals. However, as I have said, the scientific community does not currently seem to totally agree with the idea that a more or less immediate ban would aid consumer safety. Nevertheless, I believe that it is extremely important to find legal incentives, and above all practical ones, which will speed up research procedures, so that, in the very near future, we can say that animal experimentation is confined to history. I therefore fully support the idea of banning experimentation on animals and I agree with the rapporteur that a date should be set in order to speed up this process. However, I believe that the time limits indicated by the rapporteur should be more flexible, bearing in mind that in the last debate in Parliament, if I am not mistaken, the Commission said that the necessary alternative methods could be developed in approximately ten years time. In any event, it must be said that, in the view of my group, the amendment proposed by the Commission does not solve the problems already raised in the sixth amendment, mainly those relating to the World Trade Organisation. It merely eliminates the provision on the ban on sales and marketing and extends the time limit for banning experiments. We in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats view the Commission’s proposal with concern, since it appears to be inconsistent with its own previous position, it does not resolve the problems of the World Trade Organisation, which have been going on for years, and it restricts itself to extending time limits for banning experimentation. Our group therefore wishes to support Amendment No 21 which proposes that Parliament reject the Commission’s proposal in its entirety. The Commission should probably redo its homework and then present a more coherent text that, above all, offers solutions to the problems at hand. Another issue which I want to deal with is the list of substances which may produce allergies: Mrs Roth-Behrendt includes a long list, and our group limits them to thirteen, which are already described as dangerous, because we do not believe it is a good idea to produce a very long list of substances, most of which are of minimal danger, which would result in confusion amongst consumers, and which would not distinguish between what is dangerous to them and what is not. –  I believe that the Spanish hydrological plan – at this stage there cannot be the slightest doubt of this – is an essential project for our country. This has, until now, been the opinion shared by almost all Spanish political groups over the years. In fact, in 1993, the Socialist government was already aware of this need and drew up a proposal which at the time it either could not or did not know how to carry forward. True, that proposal contained an appreciably larger number of infrastructures than the current project. Of course, the years have passed and the current project has to be coherent, involving much more social cohesion than those that have gone before, being much more environmentally sensitive, and undoubtedly inviting more participation. So, as it is such an important project for the joint development of the Spanish regions, I am sure that the comment, promise or statement that the Minister for the Environment has made on several occasions that this is an open document, that this is a draft, a proposal, and that the need for a consensus on it among all the regions affected is absolutely beyond doubt, my question, Commissioner, is as follows: in the framework of the closest cooperation between the Commission and the Spanish Government, and within the situations laid down in the framework directive, precisely what support can the Commission provide so that this project can progress as it should? – Mr President, Commissioner, although Commisioner Wallström is not with us today, I would like to start by saying, on behalf of the European Parliament’s delegation to the 8th Conference of the Parties to the Climate Change Convention, how much we appreciate her cooperation with delegations from the House at the various conferences she has attended. We certainly missed her in New Delhi. I should like to make a few points regarding that conference. The European Union must continue to take the lead in the international fight against climate change. It must therefore promote political debate on objectives for beyond 2012 at the earliest opportunity. COP8 had seemed a good opportunity to consolidate decisions on implementation of the Kyoto Protocol taken earlier at Bonn and Marrakech. Unfortunately, the opportunity was missed. No broad debate was launched on the main issues for the second period. Significant progress on technical matters was made at the COP8, however. These related in particular to mechanisms for clean development, reporting, and review procedures. On the other hand, progress on a political level was disappointing. As the Commissioner stated, attempts to water down the specific features of the Kyoto Protocol by means of the much broader concept of sustainable development won the day. In this connection it has to be said that the attitude of the United States delegation was not very constructive. It consistently avoided references to deadlines and specific objectives. The members of our delegation all agreed that ratification of the Protocol by States which have not yet done so must be speeded up. We had in mind Russia in particular. If Russia ratified the Protocol it would come into force. It is however worrying that Russia maintained a non-committed attitude throughout the conference. Regarding the position of developing countries, concern over inadequate financial support from developed countries was expressed. Transfer of technology to facilitate the adoption of measures to adapt to climate change and mitigate its effects was also deemed inadequate. Further, we feel we should consider the possibility of setting up an interparliamentary committee to deal with India in particular. India is home to a thousand million people. It has an emerging economy which is growing continuously and its Parliament has expressed a clear political will to cooperate with the European Parliament. Finally, I should emphasise that there was constructive cooperation with the Council and the Commission. The latter both recognised the essential role of delegations from Parliament in conferences of this sort. It is precisely for that reason that we believe it is not acceptable for our delegations to be excluded from coordination meetings. We therefore request that delegations from Parliament be admitted to these meetings in future, at least as observers. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, to put the environmental dimension on the same level of importance as the economic and social dimension and to act accordingly means stopping talking about sustainable development and actually getting down to implementing it. To be vigilant and demanding in relation to the application of the sustainable development criteria in the Member States with regard to their compliance with European legislation and the application of Community funds is the obligation of the Community institutions. The motion for a resolution from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is an initiative which insists on these aspects and it therefore deserves the support of this House. However, to bring a national issue such as the National Hydrological Plan to the European Parliament, in the context of this resolution, is a grave error which has nothing to do with the desire for sustainable development but which has to do with an intention to abandon the principles of subsidiarity and autonomy on the part of the Community institutions. Mr de Roo, to try to deprive a Member State, a priori, without good reason, of the Community funds necessary for its economic development and for the social cohesion of its regions is, in reality, to go against the very sustainable development of that Member State. The Spanish National Hydrological Plan is not an enemy of sustainable development. Its approach is based on a total commitment to compliance with Community environmental legislation and the criteria underlying the sustainable development strategy. It has the majority support and approval of the competent national institutions and constant national and Community scientific and technical supervision. Improving the quality of life of more than fifteen million people depends on its implementation and the immense majority of the Spanish population show support and solidarity towards it. Our electors expect us to offer appropriate responses to the issues on which we have to take a position. The best political responses are the result of reflection, prudence and a profound knowledge of the issues; under no circumstances do they result from demagoguery. –  Madam President, Commissioner, as Mr Moreira da Silva stated, on 4 March the Kyoto Protocol will be submitted for ratification to the Environment Council. I am convinced that the Spanish Presidency is determined to overcome any last-minute difficulties that could arise and that the result will be satisfactory. This will mean that the European Union is taking another step forwards in leading the struggle against climate change. We have seen once again this evening that the United States is widely criticised for not sharing the level of commitment the Protocol demands. This puts all EU Member States, and this is particularly true if we are able to get the United States to sit around the negotiating table, in a position of urgent need to fulfil each and every one of the provisions laid down in the Protocol, unless we want to suffer total ridicule and have our reputation in international politics tarnished. Nevertheless, although achieving the Kyoto objectives will not be easy, it is possible. This is demonstrated by the data in Mr Moreira da Silva’s resolution. We must become a society that is poor in carbon and rich in the use of cleaner technologies, taking full advantage of energy efficiency. We know that the role of the market is crucial to achieving these objectives, but we are still hesitant when it comes to implementing specific measures, above all when we give in to those short-sighted sentiments that still perceive the Kyoto Protocol as an attack on competition and employment when it should be seen, because it can now be seen, that the opposite is the case. We must act on demand at Community level on aspects such as the internalisation of costs, emissions trading and the exchange of certain policies such as transport, energy or agriculture. With regard to demand, we must focus on training and motivating some European consumers who are still very apathetic and uninformed in this regard. I believe that the rapporteur has tabled a proposal that is committed to sustainable development, which is clear and precise in stating exactly where we need to act. For this reason it deserves, and I think already has, this Parliament’s gratitude and total support. Thank you, Mr Moreira da Silva. – Mr President, the results of the preparation of the Johannesburg Conference would not perhaps have been so poor – and the outlook for the Conference so pessimistic – if the parties had been more willing, and above all able, to see beyond their own partial short-term interests and to realise that we are at an extremely important turning point, not only in terms of achieving sustainable development – although this alone would deserve all our efforts – but also of achieving security and governability on a world scale. In the ten years between Rio and Johannesburg, there has been a fundamental change towards a globalised society in which social and economic inequalities seem closely linked to environmental problems and governability in all countries. The eradication of poverty is becoming a priority objective in the world because it is the only way we can guarantee security, governance and equality in a globalised world. After almost thirty years of policies aimed at reconciling economic development, the environment and social well-being, I believe that we have a pretty good knowledge of the range of instruments and measures to be applied in order to achieved balanced growth in a globalised world: transparency and openness of the markets, management of knowledge and innovation, transfer of technologies, the efficiency of our processes and products, the acceptance and application of social and environmental responsibility in all sectors; these are some of the most important measures. We need to approach Johannesburg by strengthening the coalition between government, civil society and the production sector, in order to jointly deal with the main challenges of global sustainability and equality. The European Union has offered clear signs of its desire to lead this process. I hope that in Johannesburg we will be able – and I include the delegation from the European Parliament here – to defend brave, generous and worthy positions which will show us to be what we aspire to be: leaders in the new world order. – Mr President, I would like to state that I have voted against the referral back to Committee of the Napolitano report and in favour of the inclusion in the Rules of Procedure of the Annex which appears in the said report. I have done so firstly for basic reasons of coherence because, when the text of the Annex was signed by me in the name of this Parliament, I did so in accordance with the mandate of the competent bodies of this Parliament. Today’s vote seems serious to me because it entails the discrediting, not of me personally, which would not matter, but of the bodies of Parliament itself during the last legislature. Secondly, because I cannot see anywhere, and nor did we see it at the time nor since, these supposed legal irregularities which would give rise to the rejection of the text. Thirdly, for political reasons. It seems to me to be a serious political error that, if the Council and the Commission have established a system through which its own members, the Commissioners, Ministers and Heads of State of the Member States, can be investigated in the event of irregularities, we MEPs cannot also be investigated. For these reasons, I have voted in favour of the Napolitano report and against its referral back to Committee. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this speech marks the end of my fifteen years of service in this House, which, I would like to point out, is the legitimate representative of the European citizens and of which I have had the honour of being President. I would not be worthy of wearing the Jean Monnet medal or the Schuman medal if I restricted myself simply to taking pleasure in seeing the 25 flags and receiving our fellow Members from the new Member States, nor if I confined myself to expressing my satisfaction with the direction taken. We must talk about the future of Europe, and that is what this debate is about. I believe that the future of Europe, Mr President, will involve overcoming five challenges: completing enlargement, creating more efficient and democratic European institutions, effectively combating terrorism inside and outside Europe, providing the Union with the financial resources it needs to implement financial policies and, finally, to turn the Union into a factor for peace and development at global level. I have talked about completing enlargement, because we have the immense pleasure of having the ten new States and their representatives in this Parliament, but this must not lead us to forget that we have to fulfil our commitments to Bulgaria and Rumania and that we have the moral duty to complete the work of establishing peace that we have carried out in the rest of the Balkans and incorporate those States into our European family. Until we have done so we will not be able to say realistically that the iron curtain has been entirely removed and that we have successfully included everybody in the European family. Overcoming the second challenge, of providing the Union with efficient institutions, means approving and ratifying the Constitution. I expressed my thoughts about that Constitution in the report which this House approved and which I produced together with Professor Tsatsos. Today I would just like to add one thing, particularly for those people who allow themselves to be led by internal bickering: it is very important that we can have simple and comprehensible decision making by majorities, but it is essential that this system of majorities, Mr President-in-Office of the Council – and I address this to you in particular – is sufficient to allow balanced decisions to be taken within the Union, without allowing for leaders or groups who wish to lead other groups of States. And this is a difficult task which, unquestionably, the Irish Presidency must complete and on which ratification not achieved beforehand will largely depend. I have also referred to financial sufficiency. This is a principle that Jean Monnet stressed, without which we  have a larger Europe but a much emptier one. A Europe which will not be able to implement the Community policies that have existed until now. That is something the Constitution does not resolve and I very much fear, Mr President, that it will lead to a crisis over the coming years within our Europe, a crisis which I trust will be overcome. It will be overcome simply by adhering to a basic principle, the principle of solidarity. Solidarity, not fruitless rivalries or ridiculous aspirations to hegemony: that is the message I wanted to leave you with on my departure. I will end, Mr President, by thanking all those people who have been in this House during my three terms of office: Members of Parliament, officials and colleagues from the groups and other Members, representatives of the Council and the Commission, and all the authorities with which I have had the opportunity to work. I have learnt a lot from everybody, I would urge you all to continue fighting for an increasingly democratic and fair Europe of solidarity, which is able to overcome the crises that arise. Mr President, the future does not belong to those who allow themselves to disappear into the shadows of doubt and danger. The future belongs to those who, despite the uncertainties of the present, can see the coming of tomorrow’s dawn. –  Mr President, the first thing I want to specify is that I shall be referring in particular to the second of the Corbett reports, in other words, the Corbett report on balanced rights between individual Members and groups. This, however, is no reason not to thank him for the huge amount of work he has done on the general report and reiterate the comments made earlier by my Group Coordinator, Mr Wuemerling. As time is short, I would like to specify that the second Corbett report discusses the fact that Parliament will continue to operate on the basis of political groups, or, where appropriate, these political groups will be supplemented by purely functional parliamentary groups composed of Non-attached Members. The position of the Group of the European People’s Party has been extremely clear from the start. We would like a parliament composed of political groups, which were the embryos that became the European political parties and will continue to be their driving force. The European Parliament is not a technical body, but rather a political assembly in which political decisions are taken, and the citizens have the right to know the political positions of the people making those decisions. Choosing political groups over technical groups is the most transparent option. This does not mean reducing the rights of Members who do not want to join a group due to their political affinities. Individual MEPs, whether or not they are part of a group, have the same rights as Members. It would be something else altogether to give groups special rights which will not, of course, be granted to those who are not part of the existing groups, but the difference between the rights of a group and the rights of a Member must be made very clear. The Corbett report has two objectives: first, to clarify that when MEPs decide to form a group, Parliament accepts their political affinity as a given, unless it is expressly denied; secondly, to increase the participation of Non-attached Members in the Conference of Presidents and the preparatory meetings. It thereby reinforces the rights of Non-attached Members without needing to introduce an artificial mixed group that would be a group only in name. I am therefore calling for the Corbett report to be adopted, with the exception of the second point of the Resolution, which refers to the Sessional Service, as I do not think it fair to impose a responsibility on this Service that, in any case, should be that of the political groups. – Mr President, I congratulate the French Presidency of the European Union on its ambitious approach in all areas and for its intention not to end the Intergovernmental Conference with a minimal agreement, but with results which make enlargement a real possibility. Due to time restrictions, I will only refer to three points. Firstly, closer cooperation and integration. They will only be useful, Mr President, if four conditions are met: firstly, the Community dimension of the Union must be increased, rather than the intergovernmental dimension; there must be more integration, not more cooperation. Secondly, the existing institutions must be used, not replaced with new bodies. Thirdly, we should not have cooperation or integration of a variable composition, since that would mean a Europe , that is to say, an ungovernable Europe. Fourthly, in the same way, we should prevent this leading to factions or closed blocs which would divide the Union. In other words, we want closer integration which is open to all current and future members of the Union. My second point relates to the functioning of the Euro-12, which must be improved, but not by reducing further the current democratic deficit. The Commission must therefore have genuine powers for making proposals, and not only for recommendation, and Parliament must participate seriously, starting with consultation, but extending to codecision. My third point, Mr President, is that I am also one of those who believes that we need a Constitution for the Union. My question is, why not take a first step now by approving the basic treaty prepared in Florence on the initiative of the Commission? This does not change anything, but it does mean something very important: that the citizens may finally become aware of which system is governing them. It would at least be a step forward in terms of this clarification which we are all requesting, but which we never get to see, at least with regard to something which must not be forgotten, Mr President, i.e. the distribution of competences in the European Union. We are leaving it for the future. Is the ratification process in certain countries not going to jeopardise this? I leave that question open. I will end here. The ambitions are fine, but we want facts and we expect to see them at the end of the French Presidency. – Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, not only for the accuracy of his answer, but also for what he has been doing, both during the Belgian Presidency and during the Spanish Presidency, with a view to resolving ‘within a reasonable time period’ – to use his own words – these two problems: that of resolving the Romanian adoption system, in order to make it compatible with international agreements and, secondly, that of resolving the problems of those families who, since the procedures were begun under the former Romanian legislation, have seen no progress. I am going to ask a supplementary question: is the Council prepared to continue exerting its influence – I do not want to use stronger words – on the Romanian authorities so that they may make progress more quickly than we have seen up until now, despite all the promises in these two fields of applying the new legislation and of resolving these cases? – Mr President, I would first of all like to join with previous speakers in warmly and sincerely congratulating the rapporteur on this complete, systematic and, if I may use the term, pedagogical work on an issue which, apparently, everybody knows about, although this is not always the case. I have tried to cooperate with him on two points. The first, which many other speakers have referred to, is the insistence that the Charter should be incorporated as it stands into the Treaties. As Mrs Almeida Garrett has said, all human work is perfectible and of all human works, legal texts are usually the most perfectible. However, there is a Spanish saying that states that the best is the enemy of the good and, in this case, the choice is not between this Charter or a better Charter; the choice is between this Charter or no Charter, and we believe that this Charter is what we need. The second point, Mr President, consists of expressly pointing out something that this Parliament has included in its Rules of Procedure: the Charter is already binding for us; for us, the Members of the European Parliament, this is already the parameter in accordance with which we must ensure that legislative initiatives conform to fundamental rights. We cannot forget this. If we, by means of the Corbett Report, have included it, we cannot be the first to disown it. Therefore my group – and I myself – are going vote enthusiastically for the Duff Report, because we believe that the Charter has the enormous merit of being the first Union text that has the support of the public. This is its great merit, and not any provision on its reform. This will ensure that the Charter is not watered down or distorted in the future. European public opinion is behind the Charter, whatever some people may think, since many people think it is very important to them. . The Spanish delegation of the PPE-DE has voted in favour of the report by Baroness Nicholson on the accession of Romania to the European Union in view of the explanations given by the rapporteur with regard to the adoption of Romanian children by Spanish families, explanations which I am grateful for. It considers that, in this way, the concerns of future Spanish mothers and fathers, who have correctly carried out all the necessary procedures for adoption and have then been extremely alarmed by the revision measures and paralysis of cases adopted recently, may be effectively dealt with. The Spanish delegation of the PPE-DE is actively monitoring the implementation of these measures and will take all necessary action with the Romanian and Community authorities to protect the rights of children to be adopted, by means of the introduction of provisions which will remove any possibility that, under the guise of adoption, cases of trafficking in children may be covered up, as well as the rights of parents who have a generous desire to adopt and who, to this end, are making every kind of sacrifice. –  Commissioner, I have listened to you with the utmost respect, but there is another question I wish to put to you: why did the Commission, in the EC-Romania Association Council meeting, oppose that Council asking the Romanian authorities to pass this legislation, which they promised for the end of last year, as rapidly as possible? We have had a moratorium in place since June 2001 and the Romanian Government has formally declared that this legislation would be ready by the end of last year. According to my information, however, although it has been approved by the Council of Ministers, it has not been submitted to Parliament and is still floating around, no one knows exactly where. I am surprised that the Commission, whose intentions the Commissioner has expressed very clearly, is not attempting to kick-start this process. I fully agree that the priority must be the children’s welfare, but this will not improve by holding up legislation that will enable international adoptions to take place. The way to improve their welfare is to push ahead, as quickly as possible, with this legislation, and not to leave these children in the orphanages until that happens. . – Mr President, the issue I wish to discuss is far more specific, even though it must be said that some of us consider reinforced cooperation to be the panacea to combat the hypothetical freezing of the European integration process, supposedly inevitable due to the increase in the number of Member States following the next round of enlargement. Some would consider this to be the equivalent of throwing a lifebelt to enable certain states to survive the shipwreck of Community construction, and to others it involves creating a hard core of supposedly elite countries, or states, as we would say in Spanish, states that would, by virtue of their power, cohesion and weight, act as a veritable cabinet. There are also, Mr President, those who see reinforced cooperation as the ideal instrument with which to create an “ Europe” or a “variable geometry Europe”, in which Community solidarity and cohesion would be diluted in a range of various intergovernmental cooperation schemes. This would be a Europe that is neither democratic, nor efficient, nor transparent, but simply a self-service organisation. None of these approaches seems acceptable or realistic to me. My report therefore simply suggests making the existing provisions more flexible by following clear and coherent criteria: First, we must establish cooperation within the Community framework and not in parallel intergovernmental operations. Europe cannot be brought closer to the citizens by making its structure more and more complicated. Second, we must maintain the unity of Parliament and the Commission and increase their participation in both establishing and developing reinforced cooperation. The experience of the Maastricht Social Protocol and of Economic and Monetary Union show that the participation of all the members of these Institutions is technically feasible and politically advisable, and preserves the coherence of the system and the participation of all European citizens in decisions that affect them all the time. Dividing up legislative and executive powers or replacing them with a greater number of bodies, secretariats, parallel chambers and the like does not lead to democracy but to inefficiency. Third, we must increase the scope of reinforced cooperation to include the common foreign and security policy and the common defence policy, which in the last few years have been crying out for a Community channel to avoid the dispersion, slowness and inefficiency that end up transferring decisions and the task of solving specifically European problems to the United States of America. Fourth, we must eliminate the veto and reduce the minimum number of Member States required to set in motion Community reinforced cooperation. I say “Community”, ladies and gentlemen, because this is what we are talking about, making Community instruments more powerful instead of replacing them. The dividing line between those who want a political Europe and those who want to reduce it to a market lies in strengthening the Community rather than intergovernmental operations, and not the opposite, as the President of the Commission explained quite recently in this Assembly. We do not need a Europe with divergent objectives, but a Europe with a common objective, albeit with various speeds. Finally, we need reinforced cooperation that is open, not closed, and which includes rather than excludes those current or future members that do not sign up immediately – a form of reinforced cooperation that acts as an impetus instead of creating further obstacles. Mr President, I have had the satisfaction of noting that the proposals presented recently at the Intergovernmental Conference coincide in the main with all or some of the criteria I have set out. I hope that the spirit of Biarritz that we have talked about so much today will materialise, as spirits that do not materialise become ghosts and the attic of European construction is full of such ghosts. Finally, I must thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its chairman for the kindness with which they received my report, the contributions which enabled me to improve it and the tremendous support that was given in the final vote. With this support, Mr President, and in the hope that our resolution will be useful in this final, decisive stage of the Intergovernmental Conference, I ask the House to vote for this report. – Mr President, I must begin by congratulating Mr Koukiadis on his excellent report. This report takes real care to specify the details of such a delicate issue. The report quite rightly separates the specific notions from what is the essential notion for the Community's action by asking the Member States to establish penalties, where necessary. That notion is the duty of loyalty enshrined in Article 10 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. It also takes care to stress – as the Commission has just done – the peculiar (to put it mildly) situation represented by the twin possibility of using, on the hand, Title VI and, on the other, the first pillar. It insists, furthermore – as Parliament has always done and as is quite right – that, wherever possible, the first pillar should be used. This is, moreover, without prejudice – as the Commissioner has also just stressed – to the great progress represented by the establishment in the European Constitution of the disappearance – formally at least – of the pillars and of an approximation of the third pillar to the characteristics of the first pillar. This is an issue which – and I fully agree with Commissioner Bolkestein – we must try to maintain during the Intergovernmental Conference. My group supports this text by Mr Koukiadis which, furthermore, has been very flexible by stipulating two of the points on which we asked, definitively, for an application of the principle of proportionality. In other words, application of penalties is not demanded if the same end can be achieved by means of other legal instruments. In certain cases it will be necessary to use penalties, but we must always try to ensure that the law does not apply the most serious penalty if the objective can be achieved by means of the least serious one. This has been suitably taken up by Mr Koukiadis in his report and I would like to thank him for that. I therefore believe we are left with a balanced report, a report which reflects the constant concern of the Commission and of this Parliament that Community law should not be a , that it should be an effective law, and there can be no effective law without penalties, without the possibility of demanding compliance with the law by means of relevant actions in the event that it is violated. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again and I am confident that a vast majority of this Parliament will vote in favour of the text of his report. . Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating expresses the agreement required from Parliament, as we have just been told, in order for the Member States to establish and ratify the 2003 Protocol to the International Convention on Compensation of Oil Pollution Damage. As has just been explained to us, the Convention created a fund to compensate victims of damage and it should be pointed out that it is funded by contributions from the companies or other entities that receive oil transported by sea. Therefore, increasing the maximum sum of compensation from the current EUR 162 million, as this Protocol requests, is not going to be a burden on public funds, but on those who benefit from the oil trade. Since 1978, the Fund has been used in more than one hundred cases, and in the majority the limit set was sufficient. However, the Commissioner reminded us that the  and  accidents demonstrated that the limit was now out of date and needed to be increased. Therefore, in March 2003, following the wave of emotion and concern unleashed by the latter of these disasters, the Heads of State or Government of the European Union asked for the Fund to be increased to one billion euros and, in May of that year, the decision was commendably taken on board very rapidly by the Member States of the International Maritime Organisation. In its Resolution of July 2003, very soon afterwards in the same year, on increasing maritime safety following the sinking of the  oil tanker (the report by Mr Sterckx), Parliament was in favour of the decision by the global organisation and called upon the Member States to ratify the relevant Protocol as soon as possible. This was the first time that they were called upon to ratify it quickly. As we have been told, the Commission not only acted swiftly, but with clear political commitment, by asking the Council to move on from the very easy promising phase to the fulfilling phase, which is always more difficult. Finally, when the situation was becoming quite embarrassing, it secured the agreement from the Italian Presidency, setting a target date, as long as it was possible, which is what the Commissioner has just explained to us. The truth is that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market unanimously adopted the proposal to ratify the Protocol. In fact it would have been enough to issue the assent, but I felt it was essential to stress the request in Recital C of the Decision, that it is important for the Member States to sign or ratify the Protocol. I must acknowledge that all the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market were on this same wavelength. Why? Because, as long as it is not signed and ratified by those Member States, we will remain in the current situation, in other words, with a fund that is insufficient to cover potential compensation. It therefore stresses that the Protocol should enter into force. Parliament wanted to make it clear that, from now on, any delay cannot be blamed on or attributed to the Community institutions. It will be the Member States who drag their feet in ratifying the Protocol who will have to face up to their responsibilities. I would like to think that this will not be the case and that they will all ratify it as swiftly as possible. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all that remains – as my time is running out – is for me to thank the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for the support they have given me, this committee and Parliament’s services for their invaluable help, and the Commission for the political support that it has consistently given. The report put forward today is necessary and urgent. I therefore trust that you will vote in favour of it. –  Mr President, my question will be very brief. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether, according to his information, there used to be around 3 500 international adoptions every year in Romania, and the same number of children living in orphanages? If there are now at least 50 000 children in orphanages, we will not be able to resolve this problem using this system. Is the Romanian Government truly exempt, because of its duty to eradicate corruption, from a basic principle of the European Union, which is the non-retroactivity of current laws, under which adoptions have hitherto been processed? – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by warmly congratulating the rapporteur on his report. The text approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is the result of skill and a spirit of dialogue, which has allowed broadly accepted compromises to be reached. The result is a text which has been rebalanced in order to increase consumer protection, especially with regard to the information they are to be provided with, complaint procedures and the situation of minors, amongst others. Also excluded are practices which are not of a commercial promotional nature, such as the operation of games of chance in the apparent form of sales promotion operations or sales at a loss or below cost. I repeat that the latter is not a genuinely promotional practice, since its aim is not so much to protect the consumer as to eliminate market competitors, which at the end of the day benefits neither consumers, competition nor the good operation of the market. For this reason, it is considered an illegal practice in the majority – not in the minority – of Member States. Furthermore, several of them – since the competition rules are insufficient – have had to reintroduce these provisions. And this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, must be taken into account when the Commission produces its article 7 report and when we try – as we are trying – to implement the common market. Because the common market cannot be a means for extending practices which the majority of Member States consider to be prejudicial, for good reasons. The impact of a liberalisation cannot be measured in purely economic terms, but we have to take account of all the factors that affect the common good, and consumer protection is something which cannot simply be left to the predatory practices of certain large companies. We therefore feel that the solution adopted is appropriate and consequently the enormous majority of our Group – which is not ultra-liberal but rather is in favour of a social market economy – is going to support it. . – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft Council Decision which is before the House today marks the culmination of a long process. A moment ago we were arguing about whether it was 25 years or 30 years. Either way it has been a long process. Since 1960, when the draft convention on election to Parliament by universal suffrage was adopted, our House has produced five reports which have ended up deadlocked within the Council. At last the Spanish Presidency has achieved a laborious agreement within the Council. We must celebrate this and congratulate the presidency on this delicate manoeuvring. This text includes the majority of the proposals the European Parliament had made in the Anastasopoulos report. Specifically, it introduces the principle of proportional representation with each Member State having a choice about the type of preferential list it wishes, the incompatibility of the status of a Member of a national parliament with that of a Member of the European Parliament, with exceptions for the United Kingdom and Ireland until the 2009 elections, the power of each Member State to set the ceiling for the electoral expenses of candidates and the power of each Member State to create territorial constituencies which do not affect in a general sense the proportional nature of the elections. It also brings the 1976 Act into line with the changes introduced by the successive Treaties in the institutions and bodies of the Union and an intelligent solution is found for compliance with the 'Matthews' judgment on the vote of the electorate of Gibraltar. It is true that Parliament’s other proposals have not been included, such as the single constituency for the whole of the European Union, the movement of elections to the month of May and the objective of parity between men and women on electoral lists. Some people will therefore say that this is a minimal agreement, but the rapporteur believes that it is better to take a step forward towards a more homogenous electoral system, than to remain in the blind alley we were trapped in. This is how the European Union has acted, moving forward prudently, sometimes excessively so, but moving forward nonetheless, like tortoises, slowly but surely. Of course the assent does not mean renouncing Parliament’s positions. The rapporteur has opted to re-state them in the recitals, improved by the contributions of the members of the committee, whom I would like to warmly and expressly thank for their cooperation. These are not purely rhetorical demands. The draft Decision lays down that the Act would be subject to a new review before 2009, by which time Parliament’s demands could be incorporated. For all these reasons, I would ask you to support the assent in favour of the draft Decision. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will end by mentioning a proposal by President Delors, which could be a shot in the arm for the European elections: it simply consists of doing at Union level what is done in the Member States, that is, that the head of the electoral cartel should be proposed by the President of the Commission. The vote would therefore leave behind the realms of abstract notions and purely national references and give the Union a public face. I have included this proposal in the recitals, with the support of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because I strongly believe that it is time that the citizens understood who they are voting for and why. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of a concrete Commission working programme for the coming institutional reform is a source of concern to Parliament, as we have seen. It seems that we will have to await the Laeken guidelines in order to get under way. But the debate on the future of the Union has been under way for months now, with speeches by various Heads of State and Government, and Parliament is already working actively. Passivity on the part of the Commission, if confirmed, would be very serious in this preparatory stage, because we all know that it has a great responsibility: to act as a guardian of the Community spirit. And this responsibility has to take the form of concrete proposals and not of vague references to a White Paper or other such matters. On the other hand, I am genuinely pleased that this morning President Prodi has reaffirmed his support for the comments which Commissioner Barnier made in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In other words, I am pleased that he has reaffirmed that the proposal for a forum is not a step backwards in relation to the previous convention, but an ambition for a convention which functions better. Well, if that is the case, why change the name? The Europeans already know what a convention is and have been able to observe its results, which have been transparent and fruitful, compared to the shameful achievements of the last Intergovernmental Conference. Its opponents do not reject the name. They reject the convention itself. Let us therefore look to public opinion, and forget name changing, so that Parliament and the Commission can fight side by side. Let us not back down in the face of those people who do not want a democratic and transparent Europe, but an opaque Europe made up of diplomats. The Union does not need a diminished Commission. It needs an active and courageous Commission, which is what we are calling for today. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fiori’s report is ambitious and balanced. It is ambitious because it does not only deal with genome research, which is perhaps a fashionable topic, but it also discusses all the issues arising from and relating to that research: the uses of genetic information, the patentability of products and procedures derived from living matter, the conditions for genetic tests, cloning, research into mother cells and the research framework programme. And it is balanced because it presents balanced solutions which are far-removed from any particular fundamentalist position. Therefore, with regard to mother cells, a distinction is made between embryonic mother cells and so-called adult cells, priority is given to research into the latter – which is very promising – and it is considered that the conditions for producing and obtaining mother cells endanger the integrity of the woman’s body in the case of therapeutic cloning, and this is therefore rejected, or surplus embryos, a practice which is also therefore rejected. Some argue, in the name of freedom of research, that it should be possible to carry out unrestricted experiments as long as the final objective is therapeutic. Ladies and gentlemen, research is essential and it must be a special priority, but, like all rights, it has its limits, and human dignity, in particular, provides us with an unassailable limit. Those of us who believe in this dignity and who try to protect all living beings, cannot sacrifice our values on the altar of freedom of research as the supreme and unrestricted ethical standard, especially when that freedom actually becomes the freedom to carry out the research which is the most profitable for the big pharmaceutical groups. Today they are presenting us with visions of the future as if they were already realities, when really they are still only promises. Mr President, the rapporteur has had sufficient courage to avoid simplifications and to deal thoroughly with the issue in a serious and balanced way. His report is based on an ethical position which is acceptable to everybody, rather than certain religious positions, which are worthy of respect but which are widely rejected, nor that lay ethic which has been referred to today as a supposed supreme standard, which is equally rejected. I therefore believe that the report deserves our full support. – Mr President, I do not need to ask any supplementary question. I simply wish to thank the Commissioner for his comments and make it very clear that, naturally, the question referred to Catholic priests, but this affects all non-orthodox Christian denominations given that there is still a certain tradition (if I may put it that way) of territorial monopoly which is not compatible with the right to religious freedom. I would like to thank the Commissioner once again and wish him every success in his efforts. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank the rapporteurs for their splendid report. I do this in all sincerity and not just because it is my duty to do so. They have managed to achieve a wide consensus on a subject that is clearly onerous, difficult and complex. I would also like to thank the committee for the effort they have made in negotiations and in reaching an understanding that has resulted in this positive outcome. My fellow Member Mr Corbett, who was the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has been kind enough to let me speak in his place. This shows the extent to which members of this committee worked in harmony with each other: a member of one particular group is prepared to allow a member of another group to replace him. We all understood that the task was to amend the Commission’s proposal in order to make it more effective. The two rapporteurs have just explained some of these amendments. I would like to refer to one of these amendments which I believe to be very important for Parliament and for the other European institutions. The amendment distinguishes between an institution supporting decisions regarding staff and the decisions themselves. The latter have to be made by each of the institutions. As for the elimination of correction coefficients for pensions, I agree with what the two rapporteurs said. I would like to make one further comment. Those who have made equal contributions during their working life as civil servants have the right to equal pensions when they retire. Mr President, this is how the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has contributed to the report. The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of the report. We are convinced it represents an improvement on the Commission’s proposal and that it will make the already excellent European civil service even more dynamic and efficient. Indeed, this is the aim of the reforms. I would like to echo the previous speaker’s praise of the civil service. It is ready to incorporate the know-how of civil servants from the ten countries who will become members of the European Union next month. In this process of reunification, the European Union will practically double in size and its population will increase by a third. A large number of new civil servants from different cultures will have to be incorporated into the complex system and its administrative procedures. The new civil servants will need to assimilate to the culture of the European civil service. I think therefore we were right not to introduce a radical reform but rather a gradual one. This reform allows the most antiquated concepts to be eliminated. At the same time, it allows new civil servants to benefit from the wealth of experience of current civil servants who have served the European Union for many years. These are the staff who have ensured that the European Union is more than a mere alliance or a group of countries. They have ensured that the Union has brought peace to many and a whole host of benefits to its citizens. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report Mr Tsatsos and myself have produced is based on very clear political criteria. Firstly, Parliament must support its delegation in the Convention, which has achieved a good text, an intelligent text, although naturally it is not a perfect text, because no legal text is perfect. We do not therefore believe that we need to make proposals to modify this text; we understand that many Members would have liked to have called for improvements on various points, but our approach has been that we should not call for any, but that we should ask the Heads of State or Government not to substantially undo or alter the broad consensus achieved in the Convention. We are not dealing with mere preparatory work, but with an expression of solutions supported by national parliaments and the European Parliament – which represents the citizens of Europe – and by representatives of the governments and the Member States. I repeat: we are dealing with a political consensus which must not be undervalued or sidelined. It is true that, on certain points, ladies and gentlemen, some governments and the Commission have expressed reservations. It would be naïve to imagine that these extremely important political problems are not going to be dealt with by the Intergovernmental Conference, or that that Conference will simply rubberstamp what the Convention has done. Those people who maintain this position are naturally expressing an initial negotiating position because, otherwise, we would have to assume they have their heads in the clouds. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen – and I am obviously speaking on a personal basis and not as rapporteur – that the system according to which only half of the Commissioners would vote would be a crass error. That solution would weaken the Commission at a time when it most needs to be strengthened. This is an error which must be corrected. I would also say equally clearly that it will not be possible to alter the balance of power established in Nice, so that just one or two States pay the price for a new decision-making method. In the Union, consensus can be changed, of course, but on one condition: that the interests of everybody are brought together. Otherwise, new consensus cannot be achieved. A consensus is replaced by another consensus, not by impositions. Our report intends to stress that dealing with and resolving these specific issues will be legitimate provided that we thereby improve the democratic consensus achieved so far. This, however, must not be a reason for reopening the constitutional negotiations, as if we were weaving Penelope’s shroud. I would say to the Heads of State or Government that that would be a great error. That is the main political message of our report, but we had to go further than that, of course. It was necessary to evaluate the ins and outs of the draft Constitution so that the citizens can express their opinion on it when the time comes and so that it may be clear that the European Parliament accepts and supports this draft as a compromise, a realistic negotiated position between the ideal solutions it has been advocating and the possibilities for putting them into practice at this time. We are not abandoning those goals. We are making it clear that the draft represents a step forward, an important step, but we are not giving up the idea of making further progress when the time is right. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to end this brief speech without thanking my co-rapporteur, Professor Tsatsos, for his exemplary will to achieve consensus and the high intellectual quality of his contribution to achieving it. I would also like to thank all our fellow Members from the different groups for their extremely valuable contributions and their sense of responsibility. There is no question that we have been able to work with such a high degree of consensus because Parliament's representation in the Convention – in agreement with the national parliaments – did such a significant job achieving the consensus on the basis of which we have been able to continue to build. I have mentioned this Parliament’s sense of responsibility. Parliament usually demonstrates this sense of responsibility when it comes to taking political decisions of truly great importance. Since it was elected by universal suffrage, that sense of responsibility has turned it into the Union's driving force. I have seen this during successive Intergovernmental Conferences, some of which I have participated in very directly. It is in this spirit of integration, construction and genuine Europeanism, that I am hopeful that the House will vote in favour of our report. – Mr President, I would like to join others in congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Harbour, on his report, which is very complete and which has been negotiated with a creditable willingness to seek consensus. I have tried to cooperate with the fundamental objectives of the report – with which I may say I am in total agreement – with certain amendments because I thought it would be useful to incorporate certain points. The first, in line with what Mr Martin has just said on behalf of the Committee on Industry, is to reject – and this has been done very intelligently by the rapporteur – the equal treatment, undoubtedly hasty on the part of the Commission, of Parliament and the Council with regard to the causes of the delay of certain rules of the internal market. As we say in our country, 'every candlestick should support its candle' and we should not all be judged equally in relation to responsibilities that are different. The second aspect was the need – and Mr Harbour agreed immediately – to incorporate workers’ organisations into the cooperation which were and are laid down in the report between the consumers’ organisations and the employers’ organisations. For those whose political doctrine consists of a social market economy, this involvement by all social elements seems to us to be significant. I would like to take up a statement by the Commissioner: as long as all active sections of European society fail to take on board the idea of the internal market, all imaginable rules and actions will be insufficient to make it a reality. If on the other hand society is mobilised, this objective will be achieved much more easily. The rapporteur has also accepted my request that greater attention be paid to the existing obstacles to the creation of small businesses and the necessary initiatives to overcome them. Because, Mr President, we can go on and on about employment in large companies, but the people who really provide work in the European Union, in really huge quantities, are the small and medium-sized businesses. And we must ensure that they can be incorporated into the internal market without obstacles, as Mr Karas has said. Finally, I would like to acknowledge the progress made thanks to the efforts of Commissioner de Palacio – it is fair to say – on liberalisation, not ‘liberation’ as the Spanish text mistakenly says, in the field of gas, electricity and air transport. I would like to thank Mr Harbour for incorporating these points, as well as the fortunate way he has incorporated the principle elements of my Amendment No 40 into paragraph 33; by the way, Mr President, and for the benefit of the services of this House, I would like to make the observation that this paragraph 33 of the English text does not exist in the Spanish text, and it should also be included in our language. I will therefore vote in favour of this excellent report, on which I congratulate Mr Harbour once again, and I would also like to thank him for his kind words for Mrs Palacio, not the Commissioner, but her sister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has cooperated so fully in the work to implement the internal market. –  Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Napolitano on his report, which has been deservedly praised today, and to which my group has not tabled radical amendments, just a few for the sake of fine tuning. This report starts by making it very clear that the European Parliament and the national parliaments, in their own contexts, fully represent the peoples of the European Union who are, Mr Berthu, sovereign peoples, as stated, amongst other things, in their constitutions for more than a century. In this regard, I would like to thank Mr Napolitano for accepting my amendment, with which I wanted to highlight this extreme situation, which is almost always invoked by those who want to strengthen a particular institution at the expense of others. At the end of the day, this approach is, frankly, ridiculous. European citizens need a European Parliament, in the same way that they need their national parliaments, and the relationship between these should not be based on rivalry but on cooperation. The report not only reaffirms the need for this cooperation, but also, in my opinion, very realistically calls for it to be organised through an interparliamentary agreement in order to make better use of resources. It deals with improving the exchange of information and avoiding overlapping between various activities for cooperation. It also recognises the competences of the national parliaments, not only with regard to the governments of the Member States, but in the application of Community Law. It shows that these powers are much greater than those which are often known or spoken about. If the national parliaments do not want to exercise these powers, that is their own business. Mr President, the national parliaments and the European Parliament have to cooperate, not compete with one other. Mr Napolitano’s report, as we would say in Spain, ‘gets things straight’. From the point of view of cordiality and solidarity with the national parliaments it makes things very clear and lends support to deep, solid and substantial cooperation. Let us support it with our vote. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating today is an intelligent and creditable attempt by Mr Poos to reform the Council without changing the Treaties. I congratulate the rapporteur on his efforts although I cannot share his optimism. I do not believe that this mini-reform can solve the problems of the Council nor do I see the political will to carry it out, unfortunately. I hope that I am wrong and Mr Poos is right. Mr President, the golden age of the General Affairs Council has passed and it seems unrealistic to believe that the European Council is prepared to reinstate the powers which it has taken away from it. European policies are not external policies but internal policies of the Member States and the important decisions must not be reserved for the Foreign Affairs Ministers. They already have enough to do with the common foreign and security policy. The institutional triangle is still essential to the good functioning of the Union, provided that each of its elements continues to adapt to the new requirements. In the case of the Council, we are facing a quagmire whose deficiencies can only be remedied: a) by recognising the decisive role of the European Council; b) by giving the General Affairs Council the task of effectively preparing its decisions so that they are not relegated to national bureaucracies; and c) by organising all the specialised Councils into an efficiently-structured system. This efficiency will not be achieved without abandoning the now obsolete system of a rotating six-monthly Presidency, replacing it with a longer-lasting Presidency. Effective political action cannot change its priorities every six months. My group raised this issue in the debate of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, although, out of respect for the focus of the report, we do not insist on this point. The Poos report has the merit of proposing to the Council some minimal reforms, which are likely to lead to a process of self-reform which is becoming increasingly essential. I would be pleased if it achieved that objective at least. We would all gain from this, even those of us who believe that Council reforms can only be achieved by the Convention because they need to be far more in-depth. . – Mr President, in reality the draftsperson of the opinion was our colleague, Mrs Wallis, for whom I am a very unworthy replacement, since she cannot attend today. This will deprive you of a much more complete explanation, but please allow me nevertheless to thank Mrs Wallis on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for her magnificent work and her willingness to take up all the suggestions of that committee. Naturally, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market had to involve itself above all with the technical aspects of this directive, and has tried to introduce certain improvements: firstly, contrary to the line taken by the Council, extending its scope to those civil actions resulting from criminal acts, since we felt that there absolutely no reason to exclude them; secondly, trying to determine more precisely what is meant by judicial costs, what items should be included and also making it possible to maintain free justice in the event of appeal, insisting on the need for requests to be examined in good time and, to this end, laying down that the Member States should designate the competent authorities; and finally, providing for reimbursement, where there are private law mechanisms in that regard. The news given us today by Commissioner Vitorino – and which the Commission communicated in good time – does not exactly give us hope, but our Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market must remember – and the draftsperson who I am replacing insisted on this – that, in the event that the Council introduces these substantial modifications, the Treaties lay down that Parliament should be consulted again, and Parliament is not prepared to give up this right, but rather is prepared to defend it. –  Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the aforementioned Committee with regard to Mr Berenguer’s report. I congratulate him on his work, and I also congratulate the Commission, represented today by Mr Monti, on the initiative, which we feel is also very welcome. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has included in its report some of the conclusions of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I would refer in particular to those concerning not extending ex ante control to new cases, simplifying the calculation of deadlines and rejecting the recording of oral submissions which could affect legal certainty. I thank the rapporteur for his favourable position on these amendments and the competent committee for its approval. There are, however, other items into which the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has not been incorporated and which must be re-stated. Specifically, we do not think it appropriate for the dominance test to be replaced by the criterion of substantially reducing the competence to authorise concentrations, nor for the Commission’s powers of referral to be transferred to national competition authorities, nor for fines to be calculated as a percentage of turnover volume. This is because we consider it inadvisable to take risks with regard to legal certainty in our eagerness to introduce new, more or less innovative procedures when they are not necessary. It is therefore clear that, in my opinion, the amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Amendment No 5 of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, which run counter to the tendency to clarify the procedures and which are obviously imprecise, and the other two amendments, which have nothing to do with the objective of achieving a better procedure for the control of concentrations, should not be accepted. Congratulations, therefore, on the initiative, and take care not to reduce the effectiveness of a procedure that works well. – Mr President, the Council has not made any agreement and, since it has not made any agreement, it is not possible to express concern over a non-existent agreement. What happened in the meeting was that the decision was left to the Heads of State or Government. My group is therefore opposed to this oral amendment and to a vote on it, because we believe that it responds to a political aim which we do not share. If it is necessary for twelve of us to rise, moreover, twelve of us will rise. I would ask twelve Members to rise. – Mr President, I believe that sometimes the perception of the world changes so much that reality itself becomes serious, ridiculous and irrelevant. I believe that this is happening in the case of noise. In truth, noise and the activities which create noise – there is nothing more horrendous than a machine digging a hole in the street, and not allowing us to live – are mostly subsidiary. They come within the competence of local authorities, and it is therefore very difficult to get different towns to agree, for example, on closing times for bars, because they all want to compete. However, despite this, I believe that this directive is guilty of wanting to homogenise all of us and I believe that is contrary to the idea of cultural diversity. I often say that, in Mediterranean time, the day has 30 hours, while in the Northern countries it has 24. But in our time the day has 30 hours because time is elastic: the grandmother goes to bed at 10 and the grandchild, on the same day, goes to bed at 5 in the morning and the following day everything works fine because time is miraculous, it is flexible, as flexible as society wants it to be. It is therefore practically impossible to reduce all of this to mathematics. I would even go as far as to say that it would reduce the European Union’s authority if the people thought that their own world was going to be subject to these directives. Furthermore, I would remind you again that we are facing the serious problem of town and country planning. There is no point in trying to pacify wild animals by playing music. We must deal directly with the problem and that is town and country planning. Also, I do not agree with some amendments, such as the one which deals with competition. What does competition have to do with noise at airports? Do we compete in terms of geography? Do we compete if we are great distances apart, if we have different climates, if we have different conditions? We could also say that we should all have the same number of hours of sun, but we do not. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must be prudent and culturally-aware, we must understand diversity and understand that people visit the South, amongst other things, because they have more fun and they can stay out very late at night on a terrace listening to music. Mr President, I am surprised that, since Commissioner Liikanen has said that the European Union is going to rigorously apply the rules in force, we should have any doubts about the review of the agreement with Israel which is taking place at the moment. I have no reason to doubt that the rule will be applied, but I do very much doubt whether this Parliament – or a minority within it – wishes to promote peace between the Palestinian Authority and Israel. I have always been convinced that, if we want peace, we cannot play at being the bad guys and constantly penalise one of the parties. If we want to have credibility, we should play positively, and if we want to replace or, at least, compensate for the influence of the United States – which many here talk about – over Israel, and if we want Israel to trust in Europe, what we cannot do is always seek to castigate. If the occupied territories are soon – and we hope this is the case – going to pass into the hands of the Palestinian Authority, why leave them in ruins? Why ruin them? Because there is a lot of falseness here. The Palestinian area does have a preferential system, just like the Israeli area. The problem is that there is this contradiction, this illogicality, that this territory is both Palestinian and Israeli, as the Israelis believe. We must seek points of agreement, we must seek peace. We must be credible to the Israeli people, and I do not believe we are going to achieve that through a ‘scorched earth policy’. Furthermore, with a policy of this type, subsequent investment by the Palestinians in order to incorporate these territories will be much greater. So I would repeat, why do we not seek points of agreement? Why does Europe not stretch out its hand to Israel? I must repeat that I do not understand why we do not do so. – Mr President, I am very happy with this document. I believe that it opens the door to more profound and structural phenomena, which relate to women in rural areas. I believe that we have so far had successes in relation to isolated aspects, projects such as Equal and many others, which represent bringing women closer, an intention to help women in rural areas. But often society does not accept or support these efforts by the European Union to help women. The Leader projects, for example, are not always led by women. It is frankly difficult to find a woman sitting at the table: the social system rejects it. What worries me in particular, however, are the structural problems. For example, the depopulation of the countryside essentially goes hand in hand with the abandonment of women, because women have no place in the rural environment, their requirements are not socially recognised, they can neither exercise their rights nor develop themselves as individuals. Studies have been done, in the University of Cantabria for example, which demonstrate that practically 99% of women with university qualifications do not wish to return to the countryside. We must incentivise transversal policies for helping women. For example, with regard to accessibility of services, we must support the policy of subsidised transport, because women in the countryside often live far from any opportunity, far from medical service, and their children are far away from education since school transport has been removed. Amongst the transversal support policies we should promote access to IT systems and bring the wealth of the urban system closer to the countryside. Similarly, I believe we should study the harm that will be done through the delocalised policy, because clearly, not only are women going to end up without work, as in the case of the milk crisis, for example, and many other agriculture crises, but also their moveable and immoveable assets – particularly the former – will no longer be in the market. Furthermore, reforestation is all very well, but we should bear in mind that these people go to the city without any assets, which have been the inheritance upon which they have supported the development of their enterprise. – Madam President, I am absolutely delighted that Mr Prodi and the Commission are giving priority to sustainable development. Nevertheless, I would like to say that, in this regard, there is an issue which is never discussed and which I believe is a part of European tradition, an issue which we should take into account: man. We are always talking about the biodiversity of nature, but we do not take account of the fact that, within our programmes in general, there is a lack of projects and working programmes concerning man’s environment: both the natural environment and, above all, the urban environment, where man actually lives. Sustainability must take account of the fact that, in today’s world, we cannot draw a distinction between the artificial setting and the natural setting. The city is an artificial setting which is just as important as a natural setting. We must bear in mind that we cannot allow our heritage to be destroyed, our cities to be destroyed, the environment to be destroyed, without calculating the consequences for man. The city is the setting for the greatest injustices, it is the setting which we must take care of in order to prevent marginalisation. Therefore, if we do not introduce the urban environment and the historic environment, which have made up our European identity, we will lose a great part of our personality. Salvador de Madariaga said that man is the only tree which picks up its roots and walks. Well, I believe this is an important issue which we must take into account; that there is a rootlessness in our society; that we must take account of the settings in which man lives, because that is where the greatest environmental problems take place, as well as the greatest cultural problems. Therefore, let us look after that environment and bear in mind that, although the biodiversity of ways of life and settings is important, I believe that the European Union is currently moving away to a large extent from sustainability, in the sense that only gigantic projects are given massive funding, as in the case of the URBAN project. One of the principles of sustainability is to deal with issues at the smallest level. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I ask in order to achieve sustainability. –  Mr President, I am pleased to say that, at this second reading, the parties have worked to bring their positions closer together. And although the Council and the Commission have made an effort to accept the many amendments from our first reading, I think that we can now say that it is Parliament that has made the effort to try to find, and reach agreement on, common positions. In this regard, the role of Mrs Myller deserves a special mention. We think that this is a reasonable programme that allows the Commission to work, makes it possible to legislate and allows States to be flexible within viable programmes, and for this reason we feel that we must support it. This is an appropriate framework for combining the development of European communities in a pivotal policy of sustainable development and I think that it is up to the task. If carried out in this way, it should be clear in conciliation that certain areas are subject to the principle of subsidiarity. I would also like to talk about principles. The desire to see all methods used everywhere and to implement a uniform policy in all States runs counter to the principle of sustainability and belongs to the globalist mindset. It is very easy to attack globalisation when talking about the economy yet not to want to call imposing the same rules on the whole world globalisation. Social principles, technological viability and the context in which methods are applied are all of great importance to sustainability; the first principle of sustainability is to know how to combine general principles with the imposed rules to suit the needs of each community, each location, each climate and each context. We must be sufficiently generous of spirit to give those in government the freedom to impose their own rules, something that we shall also continue to do, and to adapt them as they see fit. Furthermore, we support a scientific policy and feel that the function of the Popular Party and of Parliament, in this case, is to support the Council and the Commission because codecision is not only Parliament’s right, but also a responsibility that should be used to help governments. For this reason, for example, we respect the dates of all these agreements that the Commission and the Council are to conclude with other European countries. We need to be serious in this regard and support this policy that has required such efforts to produce. We support the thematic strategies and a more scientific policy precisely because this means adapting to the current state of affairs, adapting to the situation of a particular State, sector and to the issue at hand. We have to assess whether suitably adapted and applicable technologies exist, for in many instances, due to the climate, particular conditions, or size of a company, for example, technologies can differ. The results, however, should be the same. Therefore, we support the scientific nature and the study of the economic and social impacts that the programme will have, because without social principles, there can be no sustainability. For this very reason we are not in favour of simply revising subsidies, that is to say, of a target date being fixed whatever the subsidy may be, and this is particularly the case for specific sectors that have had to close due to measures dictated by the Commission, which has imposed laws upon them – such as in the coal sector, for example – that are now facing the problem of some criteria being applied more strictly than others. Let us first define the criteria for negative subsidies and take account of the fact that five years is not a sufficient amount of time for a generation to recover nor for certain deprived areas to regenerate. Moreover, we reject the principle of substitution, because it offers no guarantees to industry, to the citizens, or to society, and lends itself to a very free interpretation by certain sectors, countries, civil servants or experts which may lead to the establishment of measures that are damaging to society and that have no legal guarantee. And the principle of legal guarantee is inherent to the Rule of Law. I hope that this scheme of management can be implemented. Mr President, I regret to say that, although the Commission very often surprises us with the immense quality of its documents and the time it has dedicated to analysing the reality, this Regulation presents numerous technical problems and is practically devoid of scientific basis. Evidence of this is that it was initially proposed that animals should be unloaded to rest in open spaces and subsequently it has been demonstrated that that is also prejudicial to their health and contributes to the spread of diseases. These are reprehensible aspects indicating the lack of maturity of a document which is being presented for other reasons. And what do I believe are the main reasons for this document? Firstly, there is no scientific certainty and, therefore, there is no willingness to wait for it. That is why we have introduced an amendment which states that we must continue to carry out acute-phase protein research, which defines the stress suffered by animals. There is no knowledge of many of the aspects indicated and therefore certain measures, for example, such as excessive separation of animals, is going to harm them, or in other words, things are going to be worse than before. The second hidden intention in this document is clearly to create a glass barrier, a new border for the countries of the East. In other words, on the one hand we integrate them and, on the other, we create a glass barrier, an invisible one, that is, a new form of customs, which will prevent them from crossing from one end of Europe to the other. This concept is furthermore entirely in opposition to the general policies we are implementing on other points. Above all, however, the intention is to dress everybody in the same suit: all animals in the same suit, like Chairman Mao’s suit. We have therefore also tabled an amendment calling for the exclusion of certain animals, such as, for example, those for repopulation, wild animals, circus animals, because there is no doubt that a measure for animals for slaughter cannot be applied to all the others. This is an impoverishment, a shackling, and goes against the ideas of sustainability, which are to adapt to reality and make things viable. – Mr President, I believe there have been many statements here condemning the recent comments of the Israeli Government and recent events. It is very easy to say to other people, to the Israelis and the Palestinians, what they must do, but perhaps we should consider what Europe is doing, what we are doing, because we can do something about that, because it is in our hands. In this regard, I did not like the comments of the Council, which has taken the bait, which has become embroiled in the current media war. Europe cannot depend on the media war, on statements and threats. We must work on what Europe is doing. In this regard, European policy has been rather ambiguous in recent months, because, if Europe played an important role in creating the figure of Abu Mazen, what has it done to support him? I would like to put this question to the Council, and also, and above all, to the Commission. What have we done to ensure that the Palestinians do their duties, such as to support Abu Mazen so that he may have a single police force or to demand that Arafat concede some of his powers to a minister who he himself had supported? What have we done in order to build a country able to accept its responsibilities as an independent and democratic state? What have we done to exchange our very nice NGO programmes, peace declarations, human rights groups, doves in schools, for a system and health services which are not managed by the Church or by a terrorist system like , which is paying doctors and teachers? There are more than 1 200 000 children lacking a proper education system. The question we should be asking is: what has Europe done to strengthen the system of security and justice? We condemn the wall, because it runs counter to any democratic system and is a physical and moral aggression, but we must also build the country and support the victims of terrorism. Europe must open a line of support for these victims. It must take a position and combat the prevailing ambiguity. Let us have a clear and effective policy in Europe, and not a policy of making statements. . Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following many legislative initiatives, recommendations and studies, the European Commission has promoted a thematic strategy for soil protection. The first point of reference – which I believe to be fundamental – is that the soil is a limited source of wealth, the basis of agriculture and production, of food and support for the landscape. However, perhaps because the horizon always seems infinite, society finds it difficult to understand and accept that it is a limited resource and we therefore have to protect it like any other resource. This document not only deals with the protection of the soil, but also the conservation of the earth and the landscape, it is intended to guarantee the safety and health of citizens and prevent all types of risk. I therefore congratulate the Commission on its work. It is a well-produced document, the departure point is coherent and it represents many years of work and I believe that work is continuing in this direction. Although the text does not have regulatory status – and I would like to stress this – it is a background document which will lead to many actions, directives and recommendations and lays out the key issues which affect the future of the conservation of soils and the landscape. It is what we might call the Commission’s invisible lever which it sometimes uses to create thinking and attitudes in relation to problems. As a thematic strategy it intends to implement a scientific policy and carry out much more firm, consistent and coherent work than has been done until now. It intends to detect the cause-effect relationship, the impacts. We also take this approach, we recommend a recognition of the different nature of each soil, of its distinct typology, of the diversity of soils and the application of measures, solutions and methods suited to the site and the characteristics of the location. As we have said many times, sustainable development requires a made-to-measure approach and all scientific work has to be appropriate for the reality. This means that we are entering a complex area and that the Commission accepts the difficult challenge of implementing a policy on soils which recognises the diversity of each place, each region and each climate. What is Parliament contributing? Parliament insists on the need for referenced and official catalogues and it provides the Commission with several mandates so that, as soon as possible, it may provide a model for catalogues which can be produced in all regions and all countries, which is accessible, geodifferentiated, and always in computerised and compatible form. These catalogues must include a biography of soils, typologies, structures and other variables as well as the uses, possible risks and historic, landscape or cultural values, highlighting the risks of any nature. I would urge the Commission to develop the draft INSPIRE Directive for the establishment of an infrastructure for a European area of information, which is essential as an instrument for developing these areas and which, at the time, was approved by three Directorate-Generals. I would recommend much more precise research in certain fields. We insist on the need to exchange information and research on the use of agriculture. There are many forms of agriculture, and most of them are beneficial to the soil, to its conservation, to prevent erosion, to the maintenance of organic material. I believe the time has come to put an end, scientifically, to the common belief that agriculture is bad for the soil. There are many good forms of agriculture and we must identify them and support them, especially if we want to introduce this issue into the CAP. Research programmes are recommended which offer solutions and not just diagnoses and classifications, as has been the case until now. I would like to focus on two issues, which are innovative: the commitment to studying the desertification and the relationship with the variables which cause it, such as climate change. I believe that Parliament must continue to insist on relating water to desertification, the problems of the aquifers, the need to provide new resources, the need to look after these climatic spaces and the advance of the desert. With regard to sealing relating to territorial plans, I would say that although soil sealing and the advance of urbanisation – which in many cases is excessive and uncontrolled – and the loss of soil we are experiencing – which is sometimes dramatic in certain places – is a subsidiary issue, the Commission must, in this case, show new leadership, use these invisible levers which it exercises in certain fields, presenting proposals for good practices. It must insist that there can be no possible conservation of soil unless we include it in land management. All good plans and all management plans must include a catalogue of soils and an assessment of them, because that is the only way to prevent floods, to prevent building in storm drains and in Habitat or Natura areas. And in this regard we will support the Commission. It is necessary to implement a soil policy which can really deal with the issue of regional support and support from the States. – Mr President, I would like to join other Members in expressing my condolences to the families involved in the tragedy that has taken place. I also share some of the opinions of previous speakers. I would like to insist on one point, however: I believe that the system based on prohibition, the Seveso system, is not sufficient. The tragedies taking place recently are demonstrating that we are experiencing phenomena which can only be reduced, if not eliminated, by means of integrated treatment. The issue today is town and country planning. Europe has an old and antiquated system in which all towns wanted to have their industries and it seemed that quality of life was linked to everything being together. A town with many shops, many industries and all within an accessible area. Nevertheless, the scale, the risk and the dimension of our companies today demonstrate the serious problems that this entails. We cannot continue to allow town and country planning to be completely subsidiary. We must be capable of selecting basic elements in order to create a European area of security, in the way that is being done in other areas, such as food safety. We must recognise the need for an area of security in the field of town and country planning. And the countries must accept it. And in the same way that any town and country planning accepts protected natural areas, measures of this type will also have to be accepted. In this respect, I regret the fact that, in the version of the environmental action programme which we have received from the Council – the sixth – with regard to which we presented proposals on the urban environment and inhabited areas, certain aspects have been removed which our group considers important. We believe that it is a matter of urgency to establish environmental strategies, to implement risk studies, also in industrial areas, to create specific industrial areas far from towns, to penalise those builders or local authorities who allow anything for the sake of construction, and of course establish risk indicators which are incorporated into a European policy. – Mr President, as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport on the Barcelona Process, I would like to communicate some of the concerns and suggestions which have been unanimously approved in committee. Firstly, I wish to draw attention to the need to promote cultural programmes, which I know is not what attention is usually drawn to. We know that the Euromed Heritage programme has been the most successful of all programmes for cooperation with the Mediterranean. Furthermore, we believe that culture promotes wealth. For example, where would Egypt be without its cultural tourism, which has been one of its main links with the world and one of its main sources of wealth? Culture, therefore, is one of the factors which is most easily accessible, closest to hand, most developed and which has accumulated the most experience in the field of Mediterranean development, which means that it can be closely linked to communication between people and can continue to open doors. At the same time we wish to draw attention to education. We believe that if a Mediterranean trade area does not deal with the issue of education, it will become an area of Mediterranean colonisation. Therefore, the only way that there can be a social scheme capable of being incorporated into the business world and the Western world is through education. Furthermore, we believe that that is where a genuine and indigenous scheme also can be found for establishing the pillars for future development. Furthermore, the only way in which we can spread our ideas about human rights is by creating a better trained and better educated population. We are therefore not talking about clichés, but about reality. Another point that also concerns us is the way in which the Commission adapts to the philosophy and circumstances of the countries towards which the aid is directed. I believe that a large part of the failure of the MEDA programme is due to the fact that we are applying a European-scale mentality, which suits Commission projects. What we need, however, is many small projects. We need to look to the internal social structures of the countries involved, the universities, the educational institutions, the museums, the cultural field, and society itself, so that we can rely on it for future development. – Mr President, I wish to support the Culture 2000 programme and congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Vasco Graça Moura, for having enriched the text as a whole with new contributions aimed, on the one hand, at achieving greater participation of countries and beneficiaries and, on the other, at emphasising the need to diversify the grants, as well as recommendations in defence of the deconcentration of activities and great cultural events. In this same respect, I wish to communicate to the Commission my concern about the development and subsequent implementation of the programmes, in all their fields. The success of Culture 2000 will depend largely on its capacity to implement new working methods and to bring these offers of cooperation closer to a citizens’ Europe. It is important that the Commission itself and the Member States achieve greater efficiency in communication, expand their advice and information services and cooperate in the task of guiding and advising possible beneficiaries. The announcements of grants must be published with sufficient notice and must reach all points of Europe, allowing applicants sufficient time to find partners and seek supplementary aid. If we intend culture to be active at a grassroots level and for the majority of individuals to be involved in it, it is necessary for the European Union to come closer to them and for the details of the grants to be published in the sections of the media with the widest audience. On the other hand, I believe there is a consensus amongst all of us who have been involved and all the parties that small-scale creative elements should be supported. At the same time, it would be appropriate to favour, through the selection criteria, the proposals of individuals and groups, since it is necessary to compensate for the tendency of institutions to become the protagonists in terms of cultural production. Although it is easier to operate through the procedures of agencies and institutions, the basic purpose of the programme will be to break this barrier and favour culture at the grassroots of society, given that their function is not to create an official culture. On the other hand, Mrs Reding, I would like to offer you my full support with regard to funding: I am conscious that pressure must be exerted on Mr Prodi and the College of Commissioners and I know that you will strive earnestly to achieve this improvement. – Commissioner, I am able to express my satisfaction with all these supplementary measures, because in reality the conservation of the environment and the prevention of risks within the field of the trade in hydrocarbons is a process consisting of many supplementary measures which are gradually being taken. However, the questions I would like to ask are: to what extent are the responsibilities in Gibraltar defined, and also, to what extent does the Commission’s Directorate-General for the Environment – and I do not know whether I can receive a reply at this moment – will accept this series of measures so that it may genuinely be a transversal operation of guarantees, which includes environmental responsibility for these problems? – Mr President, the report on the European Year of Lifelong Learning is seemingly an unimportant document, and yet it has revealed significant gaps and black spots in the European system. The report concerns a year of information and promotion in response to the Luxembourg Summit and other summits, at which tremendous importance was given to training as a means of integrating Europeans into working life, irrespective of age. The report has shown, first of all, that when money is invested in education, that money is multiplied. The Member States keen to participate quadrupled their budgets. That is, money invested in education gives the best results as it is multiplied and does not lead to fraud, or anything like that. Secondly, the European Year of Lifelong Learning highlighted the Commission's difficulty in providing information and responses and being transparent. It was practically impossible to gather all the necessary documentation, partly, it seems, because the Member States do not provide it, and partly because there are no procedures for collecting it with the necessary ease and speed. We have therefore turned the report into a response and a series of recommendations on the criteria that we think lifelong learning should meet. We found ourselves with a muddle of criteria, partly introduced by the Council, as the document published by the Commission, the proposal for the Year of Lifelong Learning, was of far higher quality. It is clear that we need much more clarity over training. However, training for integration, language teaching and recreational training for the elderly is mixed up with training for work, resulting in such a muddle that it is impossible to make an assessment or gauge the quality and know what the criteria are for good practice. So, we are asking for the educational objectives to be clearly distinguished and regulated. Obviously, education for the integration of immigrants is not the same as training for new qualifications, training for a first job or retraining, or many other types. We have therefore requested clarity and better organisation of the system as a whole. We have also requested greater lifelong learning and retraining for teachers. It is clear that, if we consider lifelong learning to be simply for unqualified groups, account will not be taken of retraining university staff and teachers at training centres, who have to be the flagship of knowledge and disseminate information in society. Finally, we have asked that it be made quite clear where the money from the Structural Funds for training, which is not monitored, is going. From our point of view, this is a key issue. What we cannot have is Europe paying so little attention to education and the education funds being used for other purposes. One of the great problems of European history stems from the fact that once social classes have fought their way up the social scale and succeeded in integrating into the ruling classes, they have imitated the faults of the aristocracy, they have become conceited and lost sight of the value of training and the fight to retain the knowledge they have acquired. So, we are living in an aristocratic Europe, which does not want to concern itself with education, which has become somewhat conceited about being European. We consider that it is enough to be a European citizen and we do not realise that if we want to have researchers, if we want to have a truly competitive Europe, we need to take care of our human resources. Europe needs to realise that, in spite of the subsidiarity principle, training people and helping them to manage themselves and their future is one of the fundamental objectives of its existence. Therefore, a Europe that only takes care of its own interests, a Europe of subsidies, a Europe with teachers who only want to reduce their teaching hours, a Europe that contemplates and confuses trade union policy with educational policy is a worrying Europe. I would like to draw attention to this situation, and I believe that we must rethink our attitude towards education, as we are talking about people and our future. – Mr President, I would like to say that I am pleased with the MEDIA Plus document. I believe that it has been very much improved by Parliament. Mrs Hieronymi, furthermore, has been very open to all suggestions and it seems to me that, in relation to other programmes, it contains an innovation which the Commission has also contributed to, that is, support for marketing and distribution. Nevertheless, I would like a further step to be taken because, in my view, the MEDIA Plus document follows a principle which is rather like that of arts cinema: it supports in particular the script and the production when these days we know that post-production accounts for 60%, 70% or 80% of good films. Furthermore, postproduction is the field in which the new technologies are working. It is much cheaper to produce special effects by computer than in reality. If we do not support post-production, editing, training in editing and the establishment of studios for dubbing, editing and creating sound tracks, in which post-production can be properly carried out, our cinema will lag behind. We have European directors who have worked with American companies, who have made fantastic films. We have the knowledge, but we do not have the support for the industry to allow us to compete in post-production, because to speak now of script-led cinema is to speak of times past, it is to speak of the theatre-cinema in which the camera follows the actor around. That system is completely obsolete. We should support this new industry in which, furthermore, there are new vocations, new forms of creativity, a creativity of images, pure cinema, the new cinema for the era we are living in. I would therefore ask that, when offering grants, these aspects should be taken into account and the industry should be opened up to the world. In the conciliation we should now finally be talking of a cultural industry. – I belong to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport which, once again, has not been asked to speak on an issue which not only involves legal questions, but should also be subject to consensus in other respects. The complexity which exists in Europe in relation to the recognition of qualifications gives rise to documents such as this, which, despite the efforts of Parliament and the Commission itself, is a real ‘collage’. This document is a ‘collage’ in the sense that, although it tries to remedy situations which are unjust, those people with most power, such as the doctors’ ‘lobby’, which has been very active, have managed to resolve their situation. Many other people, however, have travelled, have acquired academic qualifications, have trained professionally and have still not had their qualifications recognised and therefore have no rights. I believe, and in this respect I am sorry to disagree with Mr Wieland, despite the fact that he has done such good work, that this is a very simple problem when looked at from the point of view of Roman law and its notion of the right of individuals. All individuals have the right for their studies to be recognised. These days we are always talking about mobility. We give grants so that people may have mobility, but then we do not recognise what has been studied with those grants. We talk of the Europe of research and a Europe of knowledge and then we do not recognise, out of pure fear or pure vested interests, anything that people do outside of their own countries. Therefore, I wish now to ask that we question this directive, so that the recognition of the medical qualifications may be extended to many other qualifications, because it seems to me to be truly unjust that this is not the case, and that a country is unable to pass on what it knows to another country. The result is that a lot of knowledge is confined to certain areas, in certain universities and in certain companies. If recognition were to be extended, Europe could enjoy the full right to the transfer of knowledge and that would be a real innovation. Therefore, as representative of the Culture Committee in this case, I ask that this recognition be extended and that the road be opened to greater recognition of equivalence. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I wish, informally but nonetheless from the heart, to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Evans and Mrs Martens, as well as the draftspersons of the opinion, because to my mind, these issues have not been addressed so directly, sincerely and authentically for a very long time. I believe this to be political honesty, even if it is not pleasant to hear. We have spoken many times about mobility and the shortcomings that exist in its regard. I would say that in Europe we are currently living in a climate of considerable moral fraud. Fraud, not necessarily in the eyes of the law, but certainly moral fraud, because we are sending students to other countries and then we give no recognition to their studies and nor do we give them certificates. This is moral fraud, in which we are willing partners. What can we do? I think that we can do a great deal. As the Commission and Parliament, we can demand compliance from programmes that are funded by the Commission. We cannot allow universities not to recognise qualifications. Europe’s universities, in France, Spain and elsewhere, are autonomous and have the power to decide whether they will recognise diplomas and the subjects that have been studied. Universities that do not comply, however, must forfeit their subsidies. There must be clear checks and monitoring, even if only of a sample, and above all, a web site, where students can register their complaints. This is not expensive at all. We are not only protecting the rights of young people, since the same applies to researchers. It is pointless to talk about lifelong learning if we ignore researchers. Mrs Reding, Mr Busquin and his Directorate-General are not doing anything about the training of researchers, nor about the recognition of postgraduate qualifications or about doctors’ training. This has today created a void in the European Union and unless the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport addresses the problem, Europe will probably not be in a position to compete in the media, in the cinema or in research in information technology. Our human resources are our only future in a world in which there is no more valuable commodity than knowledge. We cannot allow this field to be taken away from us, even if this makes things uncomfortable in terms of the European Parliament working closely with the Commission. I think we should ask Mr Prodi to do everything possible to ensure that young people studying abroad do not feel like orphans and that researchers are not left without support, at the mercy of what their rectors decide. – Mr President, I would like to address the House to talk about the issue of sustainable development at the Barcelona European Council. The Commission’s resolution clearly contains many interesting points; but in relation to Amendment No 10, which discusses information and the sustainability reports which have to be produced in order to receive Structural Funds and in relation to the Spanish National Hydrological Plan, I wish to say that I am very concerned, because the criteria for sustainability are not well-defined at the moment. We have no good definition of what we consider to be sustainable and this leads to subjective views, propaganda and unjust positions. I believe it is necessary to improve the criteria that are going to define sustainability with an open mind, because the integral policy requires that we incorporate the multifaceted nature of sustainability. But we must also take account of territorial criteria. We must therefore employ objective and territorial parameters, since sustainable development always affects a specific territory. In this respect, climate change, for example, cannot only be applied to gas emissions, but also to desertification, which is perfectly quantifiable, and to rain levels. Something else also worries me, however. While we have managed to incorporate sustainability and the environment into a transversal policy, the latter, the environment, must also open the door to social and economic criteria. There cannot be sustainability without an assessment of the social impact, of the habitability of regions, of the negative economic impact and of the costs. We must therefore enrich the criteria for sustainable development, otherwise we will create situations of asymmetry and injustice which make it difficult to implement energy and water policies in the future. – Mr President, Commissioner, we should be pleased that this directive has already reached second reading. However, I must say that I am not over-pleased because I believe that this directive is not of great quality, it is going to be very difficult to implement and has many shortcomings. Firstly, I believe that this directive is excessively tough, simplistic and reductionist. In many cases other existing directives on water have not been complied with and governments and the Commission have often not imposed discipline as they should have done, although I know that this is not pleasant. It is not a question of having much tougher regulations, because in many cases the problems concern management. It is not a question of exercising the relevant competences and not referring the big problems of the water systems to the legislative, the complications of which we are all well aware of. This is a reductionist directive. We cannot lump countries with navigable rivers together with countries which lack water, where great cracks open up in the ground through a lack of water and which see temperatures of 55°C or 60°C in the sun. I say this because the ball does not need to be in our court. This issue is in the hands of the governments and the Commission. In the same way, this damage and these tragedies which are happening, as in Romania, are not the problem of the legislative, but of the executive and of the governments. Furthermore, it is not a fair directive because it ignores the large uninhabited areas, climatic diversity, desert areas and arid areas. That is how the common position has been worded. The same can be said with regard to transfers. Transfers are an example of the distribution of wealth, of solidarity between peoples and territories, because unfortunately the Earth is not perfect and some areas have more and some have less. Lastly, I am highly critical of the fact that the directive is not accompanied by a study of its impact. It is very easy for us to demand that others assess its impact but, on environmental questions, we should demand it of ourselves and consider how many people, how many farmers, could be ruined by having to pay the costs. Some kind of study has been done which has not even been read, and I believe we should carry out impact studies by way of good political practice, rather than just laying down doctrine. – Mr President, we regret the little time available to us because this project has not been able to lead to a democratic and open debate, as we would have liked, and this would have contributed to making the population and civil society more aware of what we are dealing with in Parliament. We as a group have always supported the Commission because we have believed that this was a great project. It has been criticised for being too light, but I believe that not everybody has understood that the Commission’s proposal consisted of transferring specific policies into thematic strategies; and this is because the thematic strategies are a new way of working, a more scientific way, where the details are going to be studied in greater depth: the technical levels and the technical solutions, the viability of projects, the situations of the countries and the type of legislation which would be suitable. We have therefore largely supported the project in the form in which it was drawn up by the Commission. We believed that our margin for presenting amendments had to be limited and narrow, in order not to completely change the system of the project. We wanted this balanced academic nature of the Commission’s project to be respected. Furthermore, we firmly believe that one of the best policies in the history of Europe is the environmental policy: it has fantastic teams of officials and, at the same time, teams of experts to advise them, and it seemed to us that it was not a question of creating another parallel project. Now that the situation has taken a new turn towards numerous amendments, we have introduced some priorities to supplement the project, not to correct it, because there are already many approved directives and it seemed to us that it was not a question of looking backwards. We have therefore introduced initiatives, for example, on the urban environment, on the countryside, on a sustainable culture, on the issue of animal feed and the control of the food chain, an issue which we would have put much more stress on if the document had been produced before now. Therefore, we have wanted to strengthen and extend it, thereby showing that our group has a great interest in this policy. However, I must say that certain amendments have been introduced which, if approved, will oblige us to reject the general project. Because we cannot allow a project of this type to talk about, for example, the indiscriminate civil liability of all persons who have companies or initiatives. For example, Amendment No 68, if applied directly, would oblige any mountain farmer with cattle which causes problems for the environment, to take out civil liability insurance. This is absurd. Some of the amendments are excessively tough and are going to have repercussions for the citizens. The same must be said of an indiscriminate rate on hydrocarbons and on energy which may penalise the weaker sections of the population who take two hours to get to work because they live in the outskirts of the cities. To sum up, we have believed in the project and we are supporting it. We support the Commission. We support the idea as a whole and most of the ideas within it. We do not, however, believe this is a Christmas tree, as one Member says, which any old thing can be hung on. Neither is it a project for Gothenburg. It is a project for Johannesburg, which we want to present proudly in 2002, supporting the Commission and European policy. –  Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Parliament and the Commission for having brought the conciliation to a successful conclusion. I do not, however, wish to congratulate the Council because I feel that there has been no response from the Council in terms of the generosity needed for future programmes. Therefore, I would like to congratulate the two main protagonists though because they have furthermore ensured that everything will function normally in January and the budgets are ready for the start of the meetings.  In this context however, I would like to say a few words which should be included in the Minutes rather than disappear into thin air. I would like to talk about a problem that I observed throughout the negotiation: that of the difficult, complex and rather vague concept of culture and education that most of the European Union’s institutions seem to hold.  I shall highlight some of the contradictions. Strangely, the educational and cultural programmes tend to be fully agreed on, to be voted for most enthusiastically by all parties, and yet, these are, nevertheless, the programmes that receive the worst treatment in budgetary terms. This is the first contradiction.  On the other hand, the cultural programmes, and specifically “Socrates”, are the ones that benefit the most people and, moreover, involve few intermediaries. “Socrates” directly reaches those who gain from it. We are not talking about lobbies here, but about people who are benefiting from something that is by no means a subsidy, but a life-long investment.  On the other hand, this is a budget that accumulates and attracts broad cooperation from all countries. For the “Socrates” programme for example, the European Union only pays 10% in my country, Spain. The rest is made up by the institutions, the Spanish State and the families themselves. We can see then that there is an 80% increase in all educational programmes in general. What do I mean by this? Simply that we have wasted a great deal of money on education. If the Council had been more generous, many institutions and individuals would have put money on the table.  I would like to say something else that I think is important: education cannot be guided by the principle of subsidiarity alone. Does the exchange of educational methods affect the principle of subsidiarity? Can getting to know another country, understanding it and experiencing it be considered an attack on the principle of subsidiarity? Countries will never be able to implement the Socrates programme on their own. This is a programme that transcends and surpasses the stature of individual nations. That is its greatness, its power and its strength, and that is why everyone believes in it to the extent that we can speak of thousands of good results. Above all though, there is one result that must never be forgotten: the capability for cohesion and unity that this programme gives us. –  Mr President, I too regret the fact that Mr Vander Taelen will be leaving us. He has always produced fine, high-quality work with a completely democratic approach. He enjoys cooperating and always works within the consensus. I am genuinely sorry that he will be leaving. I must congratulate the Commission on this attempt to make some changes to the laws on the distribution of European cinematographic works and I welcome some aspects of the communication, to which I shall refer shortly. Nevertheless, I am deeply concerned that, yet again, we are seeing some fundamental timidity and I believe that this is due to the fact that the viewing platform, in other words, the place from which we are looking at the cinema and the audiovisual image and where we hope to find competitiveness, is not the right one. For example, I believe that the relationship between culture and industry is not clear-cut. We still see culture as something different, as a world apart, which is subject to subsidiarity, but can we say that digital cinema is only culture? The protection and support measures are still small measures, of limited ambition, despite the fact that many things have been achieved, due in part to Parliament and to Mr Hieronymi: for example, the considerable involvement of the ICB. This is not enough, however. One aspect of this timidity is the way in which the digital world is being dealt with; borders are being dismantled, we are being left without any and projection rooms are being all but eliminated. This is, therefore, a qualitative leap that requires changes in our policies and radical new approaches. I think that the idea that the solution for the digital world could be to support the development of research and the sixth framework programme is appropriate for dealing with an issue that will develop not in four years but in twenty-seven. Joining the digital world means revolutionising our technological system in most cases, providing Europe with a base that will make it stronger and concerning ourselves as soon as possible with the issue of post-production. I believe that we have not yet done so because there is a fear of establishing a relationship between culture and industry, because if we entered the world of the industry we would have to enter the world of competition and we still believe that culture must have barriers. The problem, however, is that we are too late. On the other hand, and in light of this call to speak in modern and contemporary terms and with an understanding of the technological revolution that is going to revolutionise the cultural scene, I should also like to say that the daring and the courageousness of calling outright for the conservation of our audiovisual heritage seem most appropriate. I think that this is a very relevant and courageous move and I welcome it. Furthermore, we must produce a database. It makes perfect sense to acknowledge digital copyright and together to address the possibility of producing a law or a measure that we can all agree on. I still believe, however, that the problems between the world of industry and that of the image cannot be resolved through subsidiarity. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Commission because this is the result of perseverance and of having believed in something which had never before been dealt with. Therefore, in recent years, during this legislature and during previous ones, a European awareness is being created of the problems of violence against women, against children and in the home. I believe we should insist on this working approach despite the fact that it is difficult to introduce the credibility and importance of these ideas into the policies of the countries. Let us consider what is happening in many European countries. Organised prostitution, domestic violence, the alarming increase in violence against children and the abandonment of many of them by their families, demonstrate that we are talking about an issue which must be dealt with through a system of shared competences. In this regard, I fully support the proposals of Mrs Avilés and I very much agree with what the Commissioner has said. To put it another way, Europe must create a minimum referential legal framework both for violence in the home and the obligation of the States to protect the victims and for trying to prevent the irreversible damage being done to children who are witnesses to horrors, minors who live in an atmosphere of fear and who cannot escape violence. Furthermore, it is very clear, and I would like to stress this, that the majority of abandoned children and those who suffer horrors in their own homes are in this situation because the family has broken down or has never existed. Consequently, their protection and education cannot be dealt with within the family framework. Other protection and defence strategies must be put in place since sometimes the family is a repressive environment. Furthermore, I have the feeling that we are getting used to so many cases arising. In this regard, I would ask for the implementation of a right for children which is binding for the Member States and that this obligation be taken into account when discussing the countries which are to join the European Union. It is impossible to carry on working without a basic legal framework, particularly when we know we are not protecting the victims. –  Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Piétrasanta, and the Commission itself, because of all the MEDA programmes that have been presented on this subject, of all the proposals, this is perhaps the most realistic and practical and, to a large extent, the one which demonstrates that it is dealing with reality. In this regard, for example, I believe that for the first time we have distinguished terrorism as such, as an act that is distinct from government responses – which should also be condemned. Terrorism has been identified as a phenomenon that should be condemned in its own right and eradicated. It is very interesting that the road map and other measures to support Iraqi integrity have been raised. However, I would like to say, and in this I agree with Mr Piétrasanta, that our Mediterranean policy has a number of black holes or black spots and is essentially unbalanced. I feel we need to make an effort to render it more coherent. For example, like Mr Piétrasanta, I feel there has been very little investment in capacity building and the structure of certain administrative bodies that could achieve democracy. Given the structure of the countries, and of many of their economic administration services, amongst others, it is very difficult, because democracy does not consist of holding elections, but of building an entire system, which needs to be far more visible and systematic. Furthermore, we need to help the Mediterranean countries with which we are going to cooperate, and which receive a great deal of aid, to understand that the aid must go hand in hand with a deep sense of responsibility, within game rules that do not allow maximum, but minimum tolerance. I am referring, for example, to the administration of the funds received, just as other funds might often also be misused or used to finance oppression. I believe we need to show that democracy means a consolidated, transparent State. Without this there can be no democracy, let us not delude ourselves. I would say the same for the Assembly we are trying to create. We must be demanding and set democratic conditions that must be fulfilled. Otherwise we will only achieve unbalanced representation. Mr President, I am very happy to see that the European Union and the Commission, and all of us together, are supporting the consumers’ associations. They are, in a sense, the other element of the triptych which makes up democracy. I would also, however, like to stress certain aspects which seem to me to be very positive. In accordance with this spirit of providing incentive, I believe it is enormously important to create networks and that they are not just made up of the European consumers’ associations already consolidated. The danger with this type of aid is that we create a group of associations receiving preferential treatment which, in the end, creates an autonomous body, with no relationship with the grass roots. To this end, we have introduced certain amendments mentioning regional and national associations, because it is extremely important that, particularly in relation to the management and implementation of the programme, the Commission ensures that the small associations can emerge, clearly linked to the scheme and the network. Since we also have the challenge of the new democracies in the Eastern countries, it is essential to incentivise the creation of small associations in every part of the Union. I would like to praise the efforts of the small associations located in regions far from the decision-making centres such as Brussels. It often takes genuine heroism to create an association in these regions, in which the people feel alone and misunderstood and where they often have to touch raw nerves or denounce aspects relating to their immediate neighbours to the local authorities, bearing in mind the scant inspection the administration can carry out. I therefore welcome this initiative and would ask that, when it comes to distributing aid, account be taken not just of the need to provide incentives for emerging associations and to strengthen the small ones, by linking them to the more consolidated associations, but that we also need to ensure that the more consolidated ones fulfil their duties and make contacts with all parts of the Union. –  Mr President, I would like to call on history to remind us that, while it serves its purpose on occasions to demonstrate a point, it can also let us down. I would particularly like to remind Mr Pasqua that he should recall where the Presocrats originate from, that Ionic art was born in Turkey, and that the truly Christian French Kings did not hesitate to call upon the Ottoman Empire to fight against the Pope and other European States in the Sixteenth Century. However, if we continue to look into history, we will also see both good things and bad things about Turkey. Turkey, in the strategic position it occupies, is the only truly secular state, and Europe has been founded upon this great battle to achieve secular states. On this level, then, yes, Turkey is a totally European State. Its efforts to eliminate religious interference, whilst having truly fundamentalist communities within its borders, is something to be admired, and which could be a factor for future stability in the region. On the other hand, under the Ottoman Empire, the Greek monasteries, the Sufis and the Sephardis all survived. This was because, at their respective moments in history, the authorities did not attempt to destroy them. Today, it is also a strong state fighting for the education of its people. On this subject I would like to remind Mrs Uca, with a heavy heart, that 30% of women in Turkey do not go to school, nor are allowed to do so, so in this way they miss out on an education. To conclude, I would like to say that there are also bad points. The major black cloud over the Ottoman tradition is its perception of the unlimited rights of the conqueror over the conquered. This gives rise to the great problem of prisons and exterminations: the loss of rights of the conquered, the weaker party, rape, exterminations, silence and death. I think that it is in this area that we should offer our help, for Turkey is a stabilising factor in this region: it is establishing agreements with Syria and is an important element in the creation of a peaceful border with Europe. We have to contribute to the strengthening of this strategy and its improvement, with European ideas used in governance. – Mr President, during Commissioner Vitorino’s hearing, I told him that I was pleased to see that he was the only Commissioner who had taken the trouble to mention education as an important element to be incorporated into the third pillar. He replied enthusiastically and even with a degree of passion which struck me as extraordinary. In Spain we are adopting a law on aliens which fully supports integration and the recognition of all rights. But we also need Europe to take a step forward with regard to education because a new wave of illiteracy is appearing, a new group of marginalised people, as a result of the fact that people are unable to understand the language of the country into which they are being integrated. These new illiterates cannot even understand safety instructions at work. They cannot understand road signs. This is a new type of illiteracy, a new kind of basic poverty which is currently becoming part of the social make-up of Europe. This problem is getting out of hand, perhaps through lack of information and research. Would it not be possible to carry out a systematic study of what the conditions and needs really are and where the essential points lie? Because without information it is not possible to draft a policy and without a knowledge of the true state of affairs it is not possible to create proper programmes. We need to lay firm foundations in this field, since nobody is taking responsibility for education. –  Mr President, my position is rather different from some of those expressed here. In my opinion, this Parliamentary question is inappropriate and imprudent. We are in the midst of a peace process, the European Union is a member of the Quartet, and I believe that if we in the European Parliament and in the other institutions really feel solidarity with the Executive and with the figure of Mr Solana in his capacity as ‘Mr Common Foreign and Security Policy’, our representative, then we should support a rapprochement between the countries and not seek conflict between the parties. Let us not forget, furthermore, that this question implies a direct condemnation of the occupied territories. All of us in Parliament have done this before now: it is a commonly-accepted practice, and we also know that, in accordance with the Taba agreements on the devolution of the territories, many of those territories, which were once desert and will now be habitable, will pass into Palestinian hands. What worries me most is that this speech goes against the Palestinian Authority. Since Arafat and Abu Mazen are making constant demands for Europe to take a firmer stance in the peace process, and for that process not to remain in the hands of the United States, and if, as Mr Solana says, Europe really is one of the biggest contributors to Abu Mazen’s profile, why do we not, instead of creating divisions between the parties, devote ourselves to upholding Abu Mazen and his policies, to upholding the prestige of the European Union against the other side? In my opinion, it does the peace process no favours for one of the parties involved to pick a fight with one of the other negotiators. Why are we not asking Mr Solana and the Palestinian Authority to strengthen the administration of the latter, and helping them both to achieve that aim? Why are we not demanding, and why is Europe not showing greater support for, public health and education services? That would prevent education from remaining to a large extent in the hands of a group like Hamas, which has been condemned for acts of terrorism. Why are we not making a real contribution to strengthening the Palestinian Authority? That would be the answer. I would like to know what impact this question will have, since it will probably go against many Palestinian workers in the occupied territories. –  Mr President, Commissioner, this is a small and modest report, an amendment to a directive that I, however, believe is an important and significant example of the great success of the awareness and information policies and of the fact that the regulation often comes after society has sorted itself out. The fact that practically all manufacturers and producers in all the Member States have removed the products we are now trying to remove indicates that there are now many mature areas in which ideally we would not have to establish legislation, and would not find ourselves in situations like this. I would therefore like to emphasise, so that it may be taken down in the Minutes, that we must work to this formula where possible in a mature society and a mature industry. I think the exclusion of oriental carpets is marvellous, as I believe it is good that flexibility in favour of art and beauty is entering into the spirit of a legislative machine that often forgets small details. Furthermore, as far as I know, people do not normally tend to eat carpets, and therefore this level of risk could be avoided. I repeat, I believe it is positive for us to work towards progress, for society to be one step ahead of us and that all we have to do is ratify what has already been recognised. – Mr President, I join my colleagues who have welcomed the fact that we have come to a time when there is recognition of an indigenous people that for a long time has been isolated and, what is more, in a complex situation, because there were people who considered themselves to be their representatives and who actually were not. I think that we must congratulate President Fox, his political group and all the Mexican political forces that have been capable of understanding that there needs to be direct understanding with minorities because democracy requires representatives and direct spokespeople and, at the same time, the acceptance of a culture of diversity, something that Europe is defending and which is part of our identity. I would also like to say in this vein that I think that the climate of dialogue that has been created is one that Europe should generously join in with and, in this respect, I think it is right and proper that whoever necessary should be received, that the Zapatistas should be received, that they should be welcomed in Europe and that we should offer them our hand. Now what I would not like at all would be for us to understand that we are creating a parallel relationship. I think that the democratic openness that the Mexican Government and the Assembly have shown by receiving the Zapatistas in their symbolic building, Parliament, is an institutional triumph and we should therefore understand that the Zapatistas should also be included with the invitation that has already been extended to President Fox. This is because we consider that we are in favour of strengthening institutions – because without strong institutions there is no democracy – and, at the same time, of the presence of all minorities, groups and associations who wish to knock on our door to ask for our help, to tell us about their specific characteristics and diversity. – In fact, I have consulted the statistics and I have consulted the information provided by the European Foundation for Education, and I am surprised by the rosy picture they paint of the situation in the countries of the East. The news we ourselves have received all indicates that, while the system has fallen, an enormous crisis has been declared. There are problems in very many places. In rural areas, many teachers are in practice not being paid, and I do not believe that, with the crisis of structural change suffered in the rest of the system, education has been kept in the wonderful state indicated in the statistics. It therefore concerns me that there is no way of searching or taking soundings. It is clear that, beyond subsidiarity, even beyond formal legitimacy, there is a moral legitimacy, which is based on our commitment to ensure that in the rural areas, in the new Europe, in the new countries which are going to join us, not a single child should remain without access to education or be deprived of the right to education which they deserve. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Busquin for deciding and having the courage to create a European research area, bearing in mind that, in the field of knowledge, we have always fought hard for the principle of solidarity. I am a member of the Committee on Culture and in fact Parliament has not taken up the opinion of this committee. I am the only person from that committee who is speaking in this debate. I very much regret the fact that the contribution of the Committee on Culture has not been allowed to enrich the debate. In this respect I would like to offer some constructive criticism. Firstly, I would like to say that this is a laudable and courageous piece of work, because subsidiarity is a straitjacket which is holding Europeans back despite the brilliance of their desires and their minds. Nevertheless, it lacks a parallel project, which is concerned with human resources. Much is said about money and companies, but we never take into account – or at least we only do so in the small print and indirectly – the fact that it is a question of human resources and that therefore research requires training, training and more training. In Europe there are no training programmes for researchers. FEDER and the FEDER projects do not cover grant holders. Furthermore, the fifth research plan only includes one person per project, although it is impossible to carry out a far-reaching project with grant holders alone. The personnel available to us include very few post-doctoral teachers and we do not have sufficient staff. How can we talk about mobility if we do not have researchers? This is the great challenge we have to face and, in this case, I would support Mr Rübig and others who have proposed specific training programmes. We must support the universities and researchers because, in Europe, working in research means sacrifices and a career full of risks and very few rewards and, of course, no economic reward. I repeat that we must recycle our teachers. Only by means of a strategic European resources plan can we do so. Lastly, I would like to express my fear that only centres of excellence will be recognised. . – It is simply a question of introducing certain titles which had been forgotten. After the recitals, the title, 'European Area of Education' must be introduced and, before paragraph 5, 'the Bologna process'. – Mr President, I have asked for the floor because I feel that not only does Mrs Korhola deserve to be congratulated on her excellent work, but we should also be promoting something more fundamental than the mere fact of environmental information. I believe that what we are debating is a far-reaching study. This is because it affects citizens’ law and the development of European citizens’ rights, over and above States, regions and any other party with an interest in wielding power. Exercising power by controlling information is as old as the hills. We must therefore ensure that control of information is not taken over by those in power and that the citizens have the right to be informed. Secondly, I believe that where the environment is concerned, one of the main problems stems from the fact that as a consequence of the principle of subsidiarity environmental protection is solely in the hands of the citizens. The citizens need to be informed and the Commission must make a particular point of doing so in areas where subsidiarity applies. That will enable the citizens to defend their own rights and insist that their governments take the necessary action. The Commission must therefore make a great effort to obtain the relevant information for areas where subsidiarity applies. It must also strive to lay down the ground rules for information and insist that all countries be obliged to provide information at both State and regional level, regardless of how they conduct their policy. Recent disasters are making it clear that the citizen increasingly has the right to manage the risks he is exposed to. He is also entitled to express his views, and request and demand commitments to safeguard his own interests in areas such as health. Consequently, in the interests of proper application of the principle of subsidiarity and its implementation we should not place power out of the citizens’ reach. Information is every citizen’s right. He needs to fully understand the relevant system, including any weaknesses. He will then be in a position to support it, make decisions pertaining to its finance and many other things. – I would like to say that, in order to judge from afar, it is often necessary to understand the reality. In the countries of the Southern Mediterranean, and specifically in the region of Murcia, they have, in recent years, stopped managing unemployment and started to manage employment. They have moved from an extraordinary and terrifying level of unemployment, originating in the great state industries whose economic model was unsustainable, through a crisis and then to a situation involving the growth of small businesses (SMBs) and economic incentives which have generated a new and vibrant model. However, it is clear that accidents in the workplace – which I am now talking about – are a problem of education and mutual responsibility on the part of businessmen, the state, public administration and, of course, trade unions. Unless they all work in unison, they will not achieve this objective. In Spain, back in 1995, a law was adopted in this respect, and they are trying to comply with it, but this cannot be achieved in a day. Therefore, Commissioner, firstly, what active policies and which economic sectors do you intend to bring into play in order to achieve better education in this particular area, so that a sense of responsibility may be developed? Secondly and very specifically: is there any programme to educate immigrants in the language of their host country, so that we can educate them to understand the minimum safety standards in this region which is host to many immigrants who do not speak our language? Mr� President, the murder of a volunteer worker, Iñigo Eguiluz, and a Colombian priest, Jorge Luis Mazo, on the Atrato river in Colombia is a tragedy. We can only add this to the list of violent deaths suffered in recent years by volunteers who have dedicated their lives to the achievement of peace and who have also brought education to the most disadvantaged people. It is therefore logical that this Group and this House should be speaking out and sending a message of understanding and condolence to the families of these victims and of support and courage to their companions who are continuing to work in these places. At the same time, we call on the institutions responsible for ensuring justice, the Commission, the Secretary-General of the Council and the Colombian Government, to make every effort to ensure that justice prevails and that these events are punished in accordance with the law. The imprisonment of a suspect is a positive sign which we congratulate. We also welcome the willingness shown by the Colombian President, Mr� Pastrana, on his recent visit to this House. However, while understanding the complexity of the problem, we would remind the Colombian Government that support for the Red Cross and the United Nations Commission for Refugees is a measure which will always receive our backing, as will efforts to rigorously apply the rules laid down in 1998 and other previous rules establishing the real, legal protection of these groups. We also recognise that the systems of detection and legal protection of volunteer workers need to be improved. These volunteers necessarily work in areas of conflict, in places characterised by violence and poverty and in areas of darkness, into which the gaze of justice cannot penetrate. We therefore need to find other measures and devise new systems. Precisely for this reason, we who live in prosperity, together with the European institutions and governments, are obliged by a code of honour to establish a range of protection measures for humanitarian workers, with full support for justice. For while we try to help from the outside, these volunteers are building peace and solidarity from within. They are the ones entering shadowy places to bring healthcare and solve problems. They are the most noble side of a self-indulgent society, which is why our response must be effective and responsible. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the Commission, the College of Commissioners and, especially, Mrs Reding, for the work they are doing to break down the barriers caused by restriction and the principle of subsidiarity, with a view to creating joint programmes which move beyond this very concrete world in which the education system is developing. I believe that one of the most complex aspects of the history of Europe – where the same phenomenon is being repeated – is the tendency towards convergence and fragmentation, the tendency to come together and then move apart, to divide up into a thousand pieces. We are living in an era in which there is once again a process of inward-looking nationalism which is opposed to globalisation – clearly a misunderstood concept – and this process tends to divide States and regions. Culture and education are the main victims, since they become confined within their own borders. However, certain programmes can only be carried out from above. Furthermore, the principle of subsidiarity is being wrongly interpreted and, in my judgment, is largely being distorted by States and many regions which use it to increase their own power and – it must be said – to enable the State apparatus to exercise control over thought and the education system. Of course the State must provide free education for all, but it must not exercise absolute control. Let us imagine that aeroplanes could only fly as far as the provincial, regional or national borders. Well, in education we are endeavouring to prevent our cultural knowledge from travelling beyond the border and the result is clearly a broken and fragmented project. I therefore praise, applaud and believe in the idea that we must support the Commission’s vision through ideas, articles and resources, since the Commission is the only supranational body able to act in this field. I believe that one of our first debates should be on subsidiarity, because there is plenty of legal literature on subsidiarity and not just this current popular interpretation of it. Furthermore, I believe that Europe is simply a common way of thinking or, at least, a capacity to communicate. In this respect, I believe – and I would also like to praise the forum which has recently been initiated with companies – that we will not be able to implement this project without private initiative. Since their powers are limited, the States cannot act beyond their own borders. We are now witnessing exactly the same phenomenon in the regions: each region is creating its own intranet (and they are all very proud!), or rather their . The result is therefore a product which is the sum of many things, but the whole is never the sum of all the parts. I therefore ask for a debate to be opened on the principle of subsidiarity, in order to analyse the extent to which this often limits the freedom of our citizens. The companies are the only ones able, with the help of the Commission, to implement projects which fly like eagles above the mountain tops and have a global vision. I believe that a European spirit of convergence, and not one of fragmentation, is our only hope of ensuring that this programme is completed and is not a source of endless frustration. We must make sure that in two years’ time we are not talking about what we wanted to do but were not allowed to. Mr President, I must acknowledge the difficulties involved in producing a document in a situation of stress and constant change in the Middle East and it is therefore extremely difficult to update the document in this turbulent and tragic situation, in the knowledge furthermore that Mr Menéndez del Valle’s skill is always to bring positions together in an open spirit or at least to ensure that the ‘good’ sector triumphs – so to speak – the good in things and in life. Nevertheless, although this document promotes the application of the Roadmap, and its main aim is to promote the peace process, I do not believe it is an objective document. In the assessment of the facts I note many biases in favour of the Palestinian Authority, a position which will contribute to confusing and weakening Europe's role in future negotiations, since if we want to contribute to peace, we must have credibility in both sectors and this must be recognised. I believe that this bias is reflected, for example, in the successive condemnations of the Israeli Government and in the great silences on the behaviour of the Palestinian Authority, and I repeat, the great silences. For example, in paragraph 4 it says that the Palestinian Authority is congratulated on having publicly and unconditionally accepted the Roadmap, when we know – and we have evidence of this – that Arafat, having rejected peace in Taba, has refused to accept any measure which may undermine his power, both in relation to the organisation of a single security system and in relation to the transfer of powers to Abu Mazen firstly and now, to the Prime Minister designate, Abu Ala. Furthermore, we know that some of the recent attacks, which have created many victims, are directly or indirectly related to the martyrs of Al Aqsa and to events at the Muqata, and I am not accusing anybody here.  And above all I am worried about certain paragraphs which are only going to serve to increase the tensions and reduce Europe's credibility, such as, for example, the ambiguity in relation to condemning Palestinian terrorism and the clear desire to separate it entirely from the Palestinian Authority or even worse alliances, more dangerous than those made between democratic parties in the open, documented by means of extreme tolerance towards terrorists, and the lack of a firm, clear and transparent security policy. Furthermore, apart from certain condemnations of Israeli methods – which I approve in the document, such as the construction of the wall, which I cannot accept, or the aggressiveness of the armed responses in Palestinian territory, as well as the destruction of infrastructures and other forms of reducing the Palestinian standard of living – I believe that the text does not insist sufficiently on the Palestinians’ commitment to accepting democracy and to build a government capable of taking on its responsibilities. And the first part of the Roadmap includes the development of the foundations for a democratic system. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate all those who have contributed to the programme, and also the Commission – I will explain why presently – and the Council, because in the final conciliation proceedings it clearly made every effort to accept and move closer to Parliament’s position. I would like to congratulate the Commission on the programme that it has drawn up. I think that it is evident that time has also taught the Commission to work along the right lines. An environmental action plan should contain broad guidelines, not annexes or specific measures, but rather it should be the main hook on which all future measures should hang. And in this respect, I think that the Commission has been capable of creating a viable programme that is full of common sense, which gives more authority to the Commission itself and to Europe than an ideal programme full of demands that is impossible to fulfil and implement, which would, therefore, have been unfair. I must also commend the choice of thematic strategies. I think that this is a qualitative step forward that heralds a new way of working, in which scientific values are going to be taken into account, a report is going to be drawn up on the status of the issue, the costs and capacity for implementation are going to be assessed and, moreover, there is going to be better knowledge of what is happening in Europe before commencing the measures. I think that these thematic strategies are a measure that should be extended to many areas. They will even enable us, for example, to know what the costs are, which is one of the things that there is a demand for: when a policy is defined, for its costs to be defined. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the thematic strategies have to be applied to policy on climate change and emissions. We cannot just have strategies on motor fuels but not on heating. There is a risk, however, that applying the policies will damage the rural environment; a misunderstood and excessively broad taxation policy for certain products could cause huge damage to those who live far away from the territory and are caring for the countryside and the environment. I therefore call for a fair and balanced application. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission and, at the same time, the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, for having permitted so many amendments, many of them open to broadening the scope of the Year and extending it to rural areas and the least favoured areas. However, I would also like to express certain concerns with regard to the economic restrictions. I would recommend that many projects be allowed since it is clear that cultural projects attract a lot of investment from Autonomous Regions and private initiatives which we cannot afford to lose. I would also ask, in this era when emotions often take precedence over good sense, that we do not support projects which are aimed at exclusion and the use of language to support positions which often seek to cause divisions between people, when the objective of this programme is to unite people. I would also like to see the European Union begin to take great care of languages which have no country, maternal languages which often have no school and no teachers; languages which are spoken throughout Europe, which no state accepts and which will never become official. I am referring, for example, to Ladino and Yiddish. These languages furthermore do not have any media of their own. Of the 150 languages which are spoken in Europe, we should make a list of those which are only transmitted from mothers to their children, which are only spoken in a domestic setting and which, currently, with the invasion of the media and with the official use of languages in schools, will have very few years to live. I would like this European Year of Languages to be opened up to them as well and that a space be made for them so that they may be considered in any other future programmes which may take place. – Mr President, as someone who lives in the Mediterranean, under the Mediterranean sun and who enjoys Mediterranean traditions and culture, I would like to speak up for the countries of that area. The MEDA programme, which largely failed in the first stage, perhaps did not appreciate that the situation of the Mediterranean countries, given the direction that European politics are taking, is extremely difficult. Many Mediterranean countries are less highly developed than other countries, and they face the threat of a single agricultural market, which they will not be able to cope with. In this respect, I would like to refer to the wonderful article by Mr Riccardi of two or three months ago, in which he spoke specifically of the fact that, for reasons of scale, the Mediterranean countries do not attract investment. It is extremely difficult in those countries to change the agricultural system and, nevertheless, they have to share their products with other countries of North Africa, of the , which belongs to everyone at the same time. Meanwhile the greatest migratory impact originates from these countries. Therefore, we must have a fair policy, and to this end the MEDA programme may be a start, although I believe that, in many cases, it is based on criteria that are important to the northern countries. Firstly, it is not possible to set up a project without highlighting the great weaknesses of those countries such as, for example, water and desertification. What European policies do we have to combat desertification? We have no clear policy on this issue. Secondly, as far as culture is concerned, more importance is being attached to intermediaries than to the actual beneficiaries and producers of culture. The same thing is happening with many other industrial projects. Numerous NGOs have been created, forming networks with no obvious beneficiaries, when what southern Europe really has to do is wake up. I therefore support a process of industrialisation based on innovation – we must not turn to the old industries but to innovation – and of supporting projects relating to technological innovation and training. In this respect, I believe it is a mistake to turn to large projects. They would simply make a few people richer. What Mediterranean Europe needs is to wake up, to leave behind its self-absorption and to exploit its own human resources. This will only happen if we support multiple initiatives which together create awareness, a critical mass and a basic system so that, on that basis, many other small initiatives and businesses of all types may be created. Some will be successful and some will fall by the wayside, but if we do not create a policy of multiple initiatives of many types, allowing society to express itself and take advantage of its resources, we will not achieve anything. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Commission, because I have the impression – from its answers to various questions – that in relation to the Spanish national hydrological plan, it has so far been able to distinguish between the technical and the legal problems. Given, however, the pressure and harassment from certain Members who believe that we politicians have the right to interfere in the intimate informal relations between the countries and the Commission and particularly in the role of technical experts, I would like to ask the Commissioner, are you prepared to guarantee freedom of work for the experts in the Ispra meeting, which is technical – as she has said – and to prevent politicisation as a result of individual and specific interests? Because we could also interfere in relation to some issues, such as nitrates in the Netherlands, amongst others. My question is, are you prepared to guarantee the intimacy and freedom of experts to work so that their work is not interfered with or subjected to pressures? – Mr President, the report and the framework programme have been extensively modified since they were first presented to this Parliament. Citizens should be aware of this extensive transformation, so that they can see the good cooperation between the institutions. I think that this is due, to a large extent, to Mr Caudron’s flexibility and capacity to listen, and this is also true of rapporteurs from other political parties, such as Mr Van Velzen, who has been listening throughout and welcoming the amendments and various suggestions from all Members. I have never worked in a committee where all requests have been treated in this way and incorporated. I would like this spirit to be maintained throughout the implementation process, because it is clear that this is a European project that needs to continue growing and expanding. I also have to say that this journey has been carried out on the basis of a policy that aims to reduce work, reduce the work of the committee and to create fewer projects, but larger ones, and Parliament has been able to break down this centrality with regard to large projects, large companies and various research programmes that are essentially covering work that on many occasions is quasi-public with regard to the large research centres or large industries, such as the aeronautical industry. Parliament has been able to open this project up in more directions, extending its range of priorities to territories that, up until now, were not covered or that were not considered important. There are various innovations which citizens should be aware of: one of these, the most important one in my opinion, is the introduction of a fourth instrument. Introducing a fourth instrument means opening the door to smaller projects, facilitating the entry of SMEs and making the European Research Area a possibility, for Europe comprises many small States and Research Centres. The average European team has no more than six people, whilst an American team consists of 24 people. Europe needs protection measures and incentives that are suited to its dimensions. Europe is still a collection of individual initiatives. For this very reason, the  seems to be very effectively set out in Amendment No 305. We have also introduced important aspects of relevance to culture. Cultural heritage belongs to the world of non-renewable resources. When the tomb of a mediaeval King disappears, with its costumes and clothing, or when we lose track of a wrecked ship at the bottom of the sea, new technologies have to be used to recover these relics. Architecture, engineering, the structure of buildings, are all in the realm of science. We have supported the safeguarding of cultural heritage and we think that the European Union should also continue to do so. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Vitorino on his initiative, although I know that his hands are tied as a result of a lack of budget and because it is not so easy to introduce anything new in the European Union. I would also like to congratulate Mr Bayona de Perogordo because he has listened, he has taken account of many opinions and, in fact, the final document is a document of consensus, enriched by Parliament, which has many new figures and many new initiatives, and I believe that that is the way to work in terms of institutional cooperation. I believe we still have to take a further step, because the model in force, with the offices and the current system for disseminating parliamentary policy, is essentially a bureaucratic model. I believe we must change to a model of open and direct communication. Another point which I believe to be extremely important, and which I believe must also be revised, and in relation to which this document introduces a very clear request, is the issue of languages. Parliament’s reform policy on languages reduces the equality between them, it creates differences between some languages and others, and, in particular, in terms of translation, there is a difference between the dates for the delivery of documents. What does this mean? That in terms of communication, we are moving backwards, because some citizens will receive the information first and others later. And given the speed of many processes, there will be some citizens who do not receive the documents in their language and will hardly have the opportunity to present amendments on time. I therefore believe that the guarantee of the maintenance of languages is an essential point, particularly in view of the fact that the new technologies allow for much more direct dissemination. I therefore support an improvement in terms of the issue of interpreting. Another issue in this document which I believe to be essential, and which must be taken into account, is something which a previous speaker mentioned: there can be no communication without participation. And in view of the new technologies and the current capacity for communication, the citizens will not feel connected with these institutions unless they can participate in dialogue. And I believe that Parliament and the Commission must establish communication departments which, as in the case of other national parliaments, allow for an open system by means of which there can be access to what we are doing from any place and in any language. The new technologies make this effort and this investment possible. And I am surprised that, in the reform, including of buildings, there has been no intention to broaden languages and communication, but rather a reductionist spirit has prevailed. I would therefore call for equality between all citizens to be respected and for the reform of communication to be dealt with from a more modern point of view. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the Commission, because I believe that this project – which we are now christening , thanks to Mrs De Sarnez’s fortunate idea – is coherent with the rest of its policy, since it opens up the world to us, it recognises that there is a form of globalisation which we must confront through active and positive policies, and at the same time, it recognises the importance that postgraduate studies are taking on, and must take on, in Europe, as well as European Masters degrees. I believe it is an important and reformist document. I would also like to congratulate Mrs De Sarnez on her common sense and her open spirit, because that is the best way for us to work together. There are certain points which I believe are interesting, but which concern me. In this regard I do not agree with my friend, the communist Member Konstantinos Alyssandrakis. I believe that European Masters and postgraduate programmes should help the universities to create partnerships amongst each other; so that they can make free use of the world scene to come together, without external controls, except quality indicators. I believe that no police authority can determine the limits of knowledge and partnership. Furthermore, I believe that at such a dynamic time for society, we cannot work if we do not allow the people to work in partnership and for the universities to meet, to seek common ground and make decisions. We must simply ‘bless’ – to use a very classical term – their actions. What do worry me – and I address this to the Commission – are the quality indicators, because I am afraid of borders of States and countries. In this regard, I would go as far as to suggest that we should give more support to the establishment of European universities and institutions of a European nature, which, together with the States, would serve as experts, as ‘stake holder’ bodies and as genuine beneficiaries of the programme. These bodies must truly cooperate on these projects and in this way they will also ease the Commission’s burden. Furthermore, I believe it is very important to create institutional incentives. For this programme we must not just support students, but we must also reward those universities which work and meet together, and those which carry out the greatest number of exchanges with third countries, because we must create enthusiasm; we must stimulate this process which, by means of the  programme, has been a success, even if it has been very slow. We will only succeed if we accept the difficulties faced by universities in implementing this policy of approximation and if we help them in this new experiment. Finally, I also believe there should be more help for the poorest students, since many of them are not able to join in with the programmes. – Mr President, I believe that lifelong learning has very often been defined as a priority objective. However, I feel that the effort being made by Europe is not really being reflected in the results. It is very difficult to establish these principles, to establish a system of quality evaluation, and to develop the right types of teaching so that lifelong learning can genuinely become a common basis throughout people’s lives. In this regard, I believe that the measures we should adopt should include an increase in monitoring and inspection and the clarification of quality indicators, and they should be of differing types, and, above all, it seems to me extremely important to ensure that training be established throughout the territory. This type of training is usually available in the big cities. Rural areas and the most distant extremes of the regions, on the other hand, are not usually so well served. I believe that, from now on, we must implement a policy of proximity, of accessibility, and that really is sustainable development: bringing education closer to people and making it more flexible. Furthermore, there are huge numbers of complaints from companies that they cannot find qualified staff, and we have a very high level of unemployment given the economic situation supporting it too. In this respect, I believe that we must implement these expansion policies throughout the territory and prevent education causing people to be uprooted from their regions, as many women are because they have to move away to be educated. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Commission on its rapid response to the challenges set in Johannesburg on the issue of water and the lack of water, and also Mr Lannoye, whom I shall now address. Nevertheless, I believe that the report issued by the Commission on water does not go far enough and perhaps avoids some of the most important structural issues and fundamental problems which we are going to have and which we already have in relation to water. Firstly, I believe that the debate goes much further than privatisation or liberalisation. Europe is accustomed to providing general solutions, to laying down directives on everything relating to the European Union. I believe, furthermore, that we must fully accept that sustainable development must be approached in a made-to-measure fashion, that the problems are not the same in one place as they are in another and, therefore, we must, from the outset, establish flexible and open policies which allow for thousands of different solutions, hundreds of thousands of small projects, appropriate for the place in question. We must, moreover, introduce this philosophy into the investment criteria and the aid criteria amongst other things, because without local efforts and this adaptation of programmes to local projects we will not get anywhere. I therefore advocate this notion of flexibility, adaptability and numerous small projects, despite the fact that there are broad problems. Nevertheless, on the subject of the framework concept, there is another issue which I would like to comment on. If water is a universal resource, as necessary and indispensable as the air or the earth, it is also limited and, take note, ladies and gentlemen, it is a transportable resource, unlike the earth. It therefore requires protection and regulation not only by states, but also at international level. It is a resource which must be shared. Just as the great rivers are shared and enjoyed by peoples of different languages, religions and nationalities, it is a cross-border resource and therefore requires international agreements and conventions for the sake of justice and sustainability. As a universal resource, Europe must propose an international agreement, a convention which will allow rivers to be organised in accordance with river basins, as stated in the Directive on water, preventing a particular country from having the right to intervene in a manner which, as in the case of the Tigris and the Euphrates, leaves other nations in precarious situations. Europe must take decisions as well, and talk about the fact that water, being a universal resource, cannot belong only to those who live at the heads of river basins or the peoples who wish to use them along the length of their course; we must discuss the possibility of creating diversions without harming anybody, in order to resolve the problems of desertification and water stress; in order to resolve the problem of the development of peoples living at the mouths of rivers or along their course. I believe there are legal issues of great importance which Europe should promote and we should also introduce the concept of flexibility, sustainability and made-to-measure actions. – I would like to justify why the Group of the European People’s Party voted against the Myller report while saying that we fully support the project and the Commission’s Environment Action Programme. The Commission drew up an excellent, very balanced and scientific programme, with a great sense of the future, and which aimed to be a document that would arrive in Johannesburg with all the dignity of Europe, proclaiming a viable, feasible environmental policy that is accessible to all and can be implemented and made a reality. However, here in Parliament many amendments have been introduced. As a group, we cannot accept any of them. As a group, in order to demonstrate our willingness, we have broadened the usual horizons of the environment and we have added very clear support for the urban environment, which did not previously exist, we have increased interest in the countryside and the rural environment, we have also supported municipal participation, which did not feature in the proposal, and we have also supported public health with great enthusiasm. However, we find that measures have been introduced which are impossible for citizens to comply with. The level has been raised so high that it is impossible even for the enlargement countries to achieve it. We think that we need to govern with our heads and with a spirit of solidarity towards the citizens. We cannot impose things so that we, the Members, get the credit, and profess to belong to the ‘greenest’ group of all, while it is causing major problems for the people. For example, with regard to labelling, complying with the standard would require all companies, including the smallest ones, to have a large amount of bureaucracy devoted to filling in labels, and small companies would have to take out civil liability insurance. It would be crazy what the people would have to do if these measures had to be applied. As far as taxes are concerned, a general European tax would fall on the poorest people, those who live outside the cities, etc. For all of these reasons, we voted against the report because we defend the people and a viable and common sense model. . – Madam President, I would like to thank the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport for having accepted this proposal to carry out a study on universities and higher education in the European area of knowledge. I must say that many ideas from my fellow Members of Parliament are taken up here, and I have listened extensively to the views of the European Students’ Association and the European Universities’ Association, as well as many other sectors and that, furthermore, a hearing has taken place. However, before discussing the main issue, I would like to say that there are no amendments and that simply, in order to aid the reading of the text, I would ask the secretary for the plenary session to introduce two subtitles: 'European Area of Higher Education ', before item 1 and 'Bologna Process ', before item 5. Why is it necessary to produce this report? There is a certain contradiction in Europe. For more than 1 500 years the universities have been an axis upon which European culture has been built. Furthermore, they have been the places where dialogue has been created, where scientific thought has been developed and where young people have been educated. But, nevertheless, curiously, we are seeing a process of distancing – which many call ‘endogamy’ – of universities from the system and the European Union, and the Commission itself and European policies are not taking sufficient account of the role the universities could play as consultants, institutions and conveyors in relation to the Community . As well as being highly professional and independent, these institutions are established throughout the Union’s territory and should be key references for civil society, as places for dialogue and debate and as support for the MEDA programmes and the programmes of the candidate countries, as well as centres for training in many respects, even more than they are at the moment. We are not therefore just addressing the Committee on Culture, which we know has created specific programmes on the universities, but the whole of the European Commission. We are therefore discussing the first European document on this issue. By this I mean that, on the one hand, we invite the universities to come closer to Europe, to observe Europe and take an interest in European issues and, on the other, we invite the Commission to extend its relationship with them in all respects. What are we asking for in the report? It is necessary to reinforce the creation of a European area of education and, to this end, the universities must be protagonists. Furthermore, we need them to take on the scientific and conceptual challenge facing Europe and its regions and nations. The universities must also be guardians and must be committed to quality and be the main protagonists and conveyors of the culture of hard work and open and transparent evaluation. Evaluation, transparency and quality should be the responsible reaction of these bodies which are generally funded with public money and in which society trusts to educate our future generations. We support the Bologna process, starting with the universities themselves and with the Council, with all that it implies: mobility, recognition of qualifications, the creation of networks, etc.; but it is understood that, in order to achieve this convergence, both the recognition of qualifications and the increase in mobility amongst teachers, students and researchers, it is necessary to make admissions procedures more flexible and make the Bologna process itself more open, as well as the architecture of qualifications. In that way people will feel more comfortable and more at ease and it will be easier to take account of the diversity of problems posed by the different types of qualifications and research, as well as the varying characteristics of practical training. The production of a Green Paper is also requested, because it is surprising how little we know about the situation of the universities. The indicators – the few available – in many cases show very negative figures; the universities are going through a great crisis: they have made a great effort to bring education closer to everybody, and they have often lost out in terms of competitiveness. They must be helped. We must recognise the research profession, promote research and create incentives so that students, when young, are initiated into these aspects; it is necessary to reward merit, mobility and results, and it is essential that the universities increase their role as centres for life-long learning. They must be centres for the spreading of technology and innovations, as well for the updating of knowledge. It is also suggested that the presence of universities in the media be increased as well as the promotion of distance-learning universities – they have asked us for this – and at the same time that a 'centre for universities' be created, as a centre for the universities to meet so that their relations are not maintained via the Internet and at a cool distance, but that there may be a place in Europe for debate on universities. Mr President, I must congratulate Mr Graça Moura because this document is the result of a common conviction, of a professional approach dedicated to culture. To advocate common learning in schools at a time when nationalist arguments are increasing seems to me to be courageous and worthy of our gratitude. I say it is worthy of praise because fundamentally, although this document appears to be written with a light touch, it defends the universality of knowledge and wisdom to the hilt. We also note a degree of rebelliousness against an exaggerated interpretation of subsidiarity. We in this House argue that education for an integrated Europe does not end simply with the euro or other common economic aspects, but that it must be the result of a sense of belonging, of a common project which must be based on history, on knowing who we are, what our common foundations are and, above all, where the principles and values of our times are to be found and what the thinking behind the united Europe we are moving towards is. Furthermore, I believe there has been an unbalanced development of the European system. Common policies have been enhanced every day, but there has been fear of making progress on the creation of common store of knowledge. Nationalisms – I repeat – with an inbred, small-minded and egotistical interpretation of the administration of knowledge and education have increased the suspicion of the creation of common information, which could be shared by all European educational establishments. I have tabled an amendment calling for an active policy in favour of re-evaluating our common cultural heritage. An active and lively policy which helps the weakest and creates common criteria. Likewise, I have called for there to be information signs in museums in more than one language of the Union, in several languages of the Union. I think that looking at signs in our own cities and in our own languages is a concept that must be overcome. I have tabled an amendment calling on the Commission and the Member States to promote research projects on the great cornerstones of European civilisation, such as common law, the history of the institutions, education, forms of co-existence and common rules, social and anthropological practices, as well as artistic expressions. I believe and advocate that if we study the history of our civilisation and culture or of our institutions we will be able to rebuild foundations which existed, which exist and which unite us. To put it another way: we are the result of a constant exchange of ideas, of models of life, of solutions and concepts which allow us to say that Europe has been preparing for centuries to be Europe. Europe has worked hard for a common heritage. This is why it has been so easy to build Europe. Municipal life, the concept of human dignity, of individual rights, of people’s freedom, of the family is the principal social nucleus and of municipalities as the broadest framework of rights and co-existence, solidarity, the concept of the State, they are all European concepts, as well as the concept of secularity. Furthermore, the very differences which make up what we so often call our cultural diversity demonstrate the wealth of interpretation and ways of living with a single common heritage. Let us offer young people the opportunity to know all of it. Madam President, I would like to draw attention to something which I believe to be extremely important. We are looking at the issue of Turkey from the point of view of fear, the extraordinary fear of a partner coming closer to us, one with a large population, which at the same time is rather different from us. Nevertheless, the reality is that, over the last two and a half years, nobody could have imagined the changes Turkey is implementing in order to come closer to Europe. Apart from the first revolution in the thirties, which changed the language and created a secular country – if only all the Arab countries had this view of a State in which civil power is separated from religious power – in the face of the increasingly powerful theocracies we have in the Islamic world, it seems incredible that we do not understand that this is a great experiment in democracy. Now, we are in the habit of looking at others arrogantly and we do not realise how small we are. And why are we small? Because, if we look at the international context and what is going to happen in the future, the great China, the great India, the United States ... all of these will be great powers and Europe will have a very minor role to play; it will be one of the world's small provinces. I do not, therefore, see any problem with a country which has a structure of government, a degree of capacity building, which must be developed, but which is greater than other European countries, which has State structures and is therefore capable of doing its duties, as it is doing, progressing under a moderate government which is striving to establish democracy and implement political reforms, I do not see why we cannot give it the opportunity to be a partner which is close to us and which can set an example for the Arab countries. Let us look at demography. The demography of the Mediterranean, of Turkey, of Azerbaijan and of other countries, stands in contrast to our own. Let us think of the future and develop the approaches and analyses we need. – Mr President, Europe is sometimes in a great hurry, and sometimes being in a hurry makes you leave things behind. And I have seen that in all these documents on strengthening the Barcelona agreement we are forgetting some things. One of them is that liberalisation, a single market, cannot be established without taking care of some important aspects, such as people and culture or education. If we liberalise the markets and encourage a drive to integrate them while forgetting this, we run the risk of ultimately achieving colonisation rather than cooperation. Europe needs to think outside the principle of subsidiarity or go beyond it and realise that it needs to provide a great deal of aid in order to raise the level in the recipient countries, among both men and women, not only of basic education but also of minimum education, which in Europe is considered to be for all citizens. Therefore, we cannot just talk about products and the organisation of markets without thinking about those citizens. Secondly, I think that we are also forgetting another important subject, which is the environment. Europe has not produced any policies on desertification or on water that benefit the Mediterranean countries and we need to think about a Mediterranean environment policy that understands the location, the systems and also the climatic diversity of the Mediterranean. Policy as it is set out today could not be transferred to many countries of the southern Mediterranean. In this respect, we need to take into account that in Europe there is serious pressure from citizens of the north on the southern Mediterranean, through tourism. With the rise in crude oil prices there is going to be much more pressure on the Mediterranean. This translates into the consumption of the land, and a policy of environmental dumping, which is absolutely unacceptable. Also, we cannot demand that European citizens properly implement their environmental policy and not apply this to other countries. –  Mr President, I should like to say firstly that I feel very proud to be working in this Parliament and to see how, at the Valencia Ministerial Conference everything that we have been told corresponds to a position of agreement on cooperation, to which other countries are signing up. I believe that it is a strong Europe, a Europe of the future, that is achieving this, and I believe that institutional cooperation and cooperation between other countries are aspects that should be highlighted. With regard to the Euro-Mediterranean Conference, I should like to furthermore offer my congratulations on the excellent idea of introducing – or of trying to introduce – solutions on a Mediterranean scale. One of the failings of the MEDA Plan, one of the causes of the delay in incorporating the countries of the Mediterranean into European policy, or into the offer that we are making, is the need for these to be accepted according to their own logic, to their own scale and with a new sensitivity and a new way of addressing problems. Along the same lines, I should like to also express my satisfaction that culture, tourism, education, integration between peoples and dialogue were addressed as issues of the utmost priority. In my view, to culture, education, tourism and cultural dialogue we can add sustainable development and globalisation, the benefits of which also have an effect in the country that provides these and I think that this is an example of successful coexistence between a world that is in the process of modernising itself and a world that still needs to become part of the change, but which has a great history of its own. As Vice-Chairman of the Delegation for Relations with Israel, I should also like to say something about the conflict in the Middle East: our position – my position – is quite clear and we have stated it in other forums. We have now reached a time when institutional positions must be adopted. It is true that we can all express our regret – and I do so now – at Palestinian terrorism, at the disproportionate response of Israel, and at the intolerable situation that currently exists. Furthermore we, with a European sensitivity and with our history of peace and democracy and our rules of the game, cannot accept that humanitarian assistance is not being provided and we must call for this loud and clear. This is not the time, however, for the Members of this House or even the delegations or the groups, to make statements in isolation. This is the time to strengthen European cohesion, to help Europe to develop a single vision, an institutional position of the Presidency, the Council, the Commission and Parliament, because we are deciding on the future of an entire region and the problem does not just concern the present, but also the future. Therefore, I now clearly state my support for peace, but for a peace that must be accompanied with very clear and solid positions, on which we are all united, not at a personal or emotional level, but for the sake of reaching an objective, consistent and lasting solution, and in which we bear in mind that our obligation is to ensure that there is peace, but also to look after the future and to look after this Mediterranean area. –  Mr President, I wish to thank the two Commissioners for their statements and say to Commissioner Bolkestein that his acceptance of the reprimand that, as he himself says, we gave the Commission, does him credit. The fact remains, however, that the debate we are now holding should have taken place long before 5 March, the date of the entry into force of the measures adopted by the United States making airlines that schedule flights from the European Union to that country fulfil the obligations imposed by US legislation to transfer passengers’ personal data to the immigration services, as has been said, with these airlines facing stiff financial penalties if they fail to comply. Commissioner Patten, we share the concern of the United States following the events of 11 September, but we also wish to say that we have an obligation to demand compliance with European legislation, specifically Directive 95/46/EC, which protects the transfer and use of personal data – in this case, of around 11 million passengers who make transatlantic flights every year. Article 25(6) of this directive even lays down a specific procedure for the transfer of data to third countries and, on this occasion, Commissioners, we believe that this procedure has not been adhered to. We also have a duty, of course, to protect the interests of the airlines, which have to comply, on the one hand, with the obligations imposed by US legislation and, on the other, with the principles of Community legislation. In the current situation, the airlines are facing considerable uncertainty. I therefore wish, Commissioner, first of all to convey to you this Parliament’s unease at your belated – from my committee’s point of view – reaction to this issue, which also leads us to doubt the legality of the actions referred to in the joint statement issued by senior officials of the European Union and the United States Customs Service on 17 and 18 February. This statement, Mr President, Commissioners, even provides for – and I find this most surprising – an exception to be made to the application of our legislation in light of the United States’ wishes. I wonder how this is possible. On the other hand, the Union’s national data protection authorities now have their hands tied because, if passengers complain, they must apply the European directives in force and are obliged to impose penalties on the airlines. We will, therefore, have to find a quick way out of this situation of uncertainty, by defining a clear framework for action and by reconciling the legitimate demands of the United States with respect for European legislation. For this reason, the dialogue that has taken place to date within the administrations’ services must be conveyed urgently, given the transparency required, to the institutions’ political representatives and formulas must be quickly found for enabling the data that must be transferred, and the conditions in which they will be processed by the United States’ agencies, to be clearly defined. It is absolutely essential, at the same time, to inform the citizens that their data might be transferred and should this happen, to obtain their consent because, Commissioners, this is what Community legislation requires. The ideal situation would be for the US authorities to be able swiftly to define their data protection standards, the adoption of which is already provided for in US legislation, and for the Commission to be able then to state that the necessary data can be transferred under the conditions laid down by Community legislation. This is also a requirement laid down in Article 7 of our Charter of Fundamental Rights. I therefore call on the Commissioners responsible to make up for lost time and I rely – also on behalf of the committee which I have the honour to chair – on the Commission’s willingness to study with all due attention and urgency the texts that have been submitted to us on the basis of Directive 95/46/EC. We should also like to be informed, starting from today, of all meetings and of every stage in negotiations on this matter, not when the decision is about to be adopted, to ensure that we can cooperate and work together with the Commission, as we have been asked to do. – Mr President, there is a certain and true fact that seems to trouble the left wing, which is the fact that it has been the Spanish Government, specifically the Government of President José María Aznar, a Government of the , that has driven forward, both in Tampere and in Seville, all the guidelines that the European Union has adopted in the area of immigration and asylum. What is happening is that the European left is saying one thing in the European Parliament that does not coincide with what their governments, where they have them, are doing, they are saying something else in international forums and the opposite in the national parliaments and in the media. That is called schizophrenia, lack of ideas and of a political plan. And to cap it all, they call for strikes to hinder the work of a summit which tried, fortunately successfully, to give fresh impetus to the measures agreed in Tampere and to fight those who deal in and traffic human beings. I think that it is important, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that it should be known that Members from across the Mediterranean spectrum who met in Bari, without any distinction in terms of politics, three days before the Seville summit, unanimously adopted a resolution clearly supporting each and every one of the guidelines agreed in Seville: to promote integration policies ensuring the respect of the rights and freedoms of immigrants that legally live in the European Union, and also respect on their part for their obligations as citizens and for the values of civil society; making association and cooperation agreements a tool for joint responsibility in managing migratory flows; and adopting the necessary measures to evaluate and ensure the effective application of the agreements. Also that the countries of origin should also increase their efforts in the fight against illegal immigration, better monitor and manage their borders and take responsibility for the readmission of illegal immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, the thousands of deaths and disappearances already counted on the coast of Andalusia, along with those in Dover, or the sad sight of boats full of immigrants on the Italian coasts should not allow the slightest room for demagogy or irresponsible partisan accusations, which only encourage those who make immigration into a radical flag with serious political consequences. .  Mr President, we have, of course, already debated in depth all aspects of the agreement with the United States on the treatment of the personal data of passengers travelling to that country from EU territory. The request for the prior opinion of the Court of Justice, as Mr Lehne, from my own political group has quite rightly said, will only postpone the signing of the agreement and leave a legal vacuum in place in relation to the treatment of personal data by the US authorities, seriously prejudicing the European public and the air carriers themselves. It is not, therefore, necessary to repeat our position, which is already well known. We also believe, naturally, that this agreement can be improved but also that the fight against terrorism and cooperation with third countries in the field, with the United States in this case, is a priority for the European Union. Furthermore, Mr President, we need the agreement now and, in any event, there will always be the possibility of referring the matter to the Court of Justice at a later date. I would also like, Mr President, to take up Commissioner Bolkestein’s proposal that we listen to what Commissioner Patten says to us tomorrow afternoon with regard to the agreement and delay the vote scheduled for tomorrow morning. I would ask that this request be considered, since I believe it to be very reasonable, and, in any event, I would ask that the vote we were going to hold tomorrow on prior referral to the Court of Justice be delayed until the day after tomorrow, when we have heard the Commission’s speech. –  Madam President, yesterday, the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, of which I am chairman, did indeed hold an extraordinary meeting to deal with this matter and it was agreed to refuse urgent procedure, and for two basic reasons: firstly, because the urgent procedure is not authorised to be applied on one day for the next; in the meeting, neither the Commission nor the Council presented good enough arguments; and, secondly, because I believe we must demand of the Council that it justify urgent procedure and, also, not to treat Parliament as a mere formality, even though it has to be said that, in this case, the content of the proposal also reflects the opinion of Parliament. In any case, this matter will be dealt with next Monday in our committee’s ordinary session. – Mr President, I would like to welcome the fact that we are holding this debate on an important measure which will unquestionably help us to make progress on the creation of the eagerly-awaited area of freedom, security and justice. I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the great interest she has shown in dealing with this initiative and on the excellent fundamental work she has done. Thanks to the Treaty of Amsterdam, we have managed to create the necessary legal bases to implement a whole series of measures at European level making the free, secure and just Europe we all want to see a reality. In 1999, the Member States, meeting at the Tampere European Council, stated that, in a genuine European area of justice, it must not be the case that the incompatibility and complexity of the legal and administrative systems of the Member States should prevent people and companies from exercising their rights or dissuade them from doing so. In order to prevent this kind of malfunctioning, the Member States established, as a cornerstone for judicial cooperation in the Union, both civil and criminal, the principle of the mutual recognition of judicial resolutions and sentences. But, in order for mutual recognition to be possible, it is also necessary to comply with another principle: that of reciprocal trust. This means that, in order for foreign judicial resolutions to be accepted as equivalent to national ones, there must be total confidence in the systems, both legal and judicial, of the issuing country. In this respect, as the initiative recognises in one of its recitals, the training of the members of the judicial bodies of the Member States is one of the factors which will lead to the success of the European area of justice. Furthermore, I believe that the initiative we are discussing is important. Its aim is to create a network which allows for the establishment of the necessary links between the different bodies of the Member States responsible for the professional training and continued training of the people responsible for the administration of justice. This will promote understanding between the different authorities and help establish a climate of trust. It will undoubtedly lead to better knowledge of the respective legal systems of the Member States and better functioning of the European area of justice. In this way, we will institutionalise a system of exchange of best practices and open up a fluid channel between the national bodies, while respecting the identity of each of them and their necessary judicial independence, which is the basis of the Rule of Law. I would like to focus on what I consider to be the most important aspect of the present initiative, which has already been mentioned by the rapporteur: the scope for action on the network. In fact, this has been the central issue of the main discussions, naturally, since it has a direct influence on the choice of legal basis. Despite the confused dispersal in the Treaties of the legal bases for the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice, I agree with the rapporteur that it makes no sense to create a network like the one we are discussing for the specific field of criminal law. In itself, justice is a single concept and therefore the coherent thing to do is to create a single network to coordinate the national bodies for continued judicial training, both in the civil field and in the criminal field. In view, on the one hand, of the opinion expressed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market which rules out the choice of a double legal basis if it involves procedures which are incompatible with each other and, on the other, of the importance and the objectives of the initiative, I believe that the choice of the direction laid down in Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union as a legal basis is the most appropriate solution. Our work is based on the principle that articles are incorporated into the Treaty because they are expected to be used subsequently. In this respect, we should not be afraid of opting for this procedure, regardless of the fact that it has not so far been used. Furthermore, the choice of Article 42 has an even greater significance, since it means supporting the communitarisation of areas which are still relegated to particular procedures. In this regard, on behalf of the Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to insist on the need to put an end to the legal dispersal and multiplicity of the legal bases for the creation of this area. This initiative will allow us to put into practice the will enshrined by the Member States in the said Article 42 of the Treaty and open up the road to the gradual communitarisation of the most important aspects of criminal law. –  Mr President, my good friend and colleague Mr Deprez has overlooked the fact that today is not a particularly good day for Belgium either. My group’s position is in line with the conclusions of the Cerdeira and Sousa Pinto reports, insofar as we believe private security companies must be regulated at Community level. Given the size and activity of the sector across the Union, its activity should be regulated, as is recognised by Mrs Cerdeira Morterero in her report. I do however admit the validity of the arguments put forward in favour of reconsidering the initiative given the need to adjust it to its legal basis. With regard to setting up a European Institute of Police Studies, this ought surely to come within the scope of the European Police Academy, precisely because we should avoid creating a multiplicity of rival bodies. Both these initiatives do nonetheless demonstrate the Spanish Presidency’s emphasis on and commitment to achieving maximum efficiency from bodies established to guarantee the safety of the citizens of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, European public opinion is becoming increasingly concerned not only about the rise in delinquency, but also about the increasing tendency to resort to street violence. All too often, mass events such as football matches or public demonstrations turn into pitched battles resulting in the destruction of street furniture and sometimes in personal injury. The demonstration may start out as legitimate and peaceful like those organised by anti-globalisation movements, but then things go wrong. The average citizen will not venture into certain areas of our big cities after dusk. The citizens are clearly concerned about the present lack of security and unhappy with the situation. This is why private security companies are flourishing and need to be regulated at European level. More thought should also be given to the relationship between public and private security. It does seem as if those who can pay for their security can be sure of it, and those who are not in a position to do so are at greater risk. In other words, those who have the money can buy the security the state is unable to guarantee. I do therefore believe that the issue should be dealt with in greater depth. Furthermore, street violence, cyber crime and child pornography are all new offences and involve a significant psychological element. This may possibly result from the dynamism and hyper development of a society with a great capacity for the transmission of information and communication, in which values such as safety, justice and urban peace have been sidelined in favour of misconstrued notions of modernism and progress. Coordinated police action is required if we are to rise to the challenges posed by these developments at European level, together with the swift implementation of initiatives designed to overcome them, such as the one before us today. – Mr President, Commissioner, appropriate management of migratory flows through all Member States, including States of origin and transit, the fight against human traffickers and illegal immigration, as well as the need to reconcile immigration pressure with the capacity of the receiving society, are aspects which from many points of view – as we have just heard – we have been advocating as the necessary means to put an end to the human tragedies and dramas which uncontrolled immigration is producing within and beyond our borders. Furthermore, we must not forget that the gradual disappearance of the Union’s internal borders as a means of creating an area of freedom, security and justice, as called for in Tampere, is a project which involves certain risks. The proliferation of mafias of every kind, of terrorist and criminal groups, as well as their free movement throughout the Union, must be combated through the fulfilment by all the Member States of our responsibilities, and it is therefore necessary to strengthen controls at the Union’s external borders. The European Union therefore reached the conclusion that it was necessary to establish an objective list of countries whose nationals would require a visa to enter European territory, thereby making a start on the harmonisation of the Member States in the field of visas. Subsequently, the global plan to combat illegal immigration set as an objective, ratified by the Seville European Council, a review by the end of 2000 of this list of third countries, as the Commissioner has just pointed out. This is the subject of the report we are discussing today, for which I am rapporteur. It responds to the data provided by the Member States which demonstrate the increase in the number of Ecuadorian immigrants in an illegal situation and which lead to the need to include Ecuador on the list of countries whose nationals require visas. While it is true that the dramatic events taking place practically every day on the southern coasts of Europe are the most visible and newsworthy aspects of illegal immigration, we must not forget that this is a phenomenon with many other faces. From a quantitative point of view, the daily trickle of illegals arriving aboard small boats cannot be compared with the number of foreigners who enter the Community by means of other borders, such as airports. The majority enter as mere tourists, only obliged to carry a minimal quantity of money – which is often arranged by mafias – and once in Europe they become illegal immigrants seeking work on the black market, with the resulting employment exploitation. It is therefore essential, ladies and gentlemen, that together with repressive measures which only deal with a part of the phenomenon of illegal immigration, we opt for the adoption of rules aimed at promoting the arrival of people on European territory by means of legal channels. The proposal we are discussing today falls within this context. On the basis of the reality demonstrated by the data currently available to us, we must facilitate the legal arrival of Ecuadorians, preventing them from falling into the hands of heartless gangs as well as the creation of false expectations about what awaits them on European territory. Finally, Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure will require, on the one hand, that the Republic of Ecuador fulfil its responsibility to properly manage its own emigration and, on the other, that the European Union prioritise the policy of cooperation in the field of emigration with the countries of Latin America. We will therefore vote in favour of the amendments which, to this end, have been presented by the Group of the Party of European Socialists. – Madam President, I would like to end this round of speeches by making two brief comments. The first is that it is perplexing that at its recent meeting in Seville the European Socialist Group should have accused the Spanish Presidency and the People’s Party of having a frivolous attitude to immigration. What is frivolous is for the Socialist Group to say one thing here in Parliament and then do something else in the Council by means of its governments; it is also frivolous to approve reports in the European Parliament which promote illegal immigration and offer asylum seekers rights which not even Community citizens have, such as the recognition of the right and obligation for them to be guaranteed nurseries for their children. The incoherences of the Socialist Group and its complete lack of ideas and sensible proposals is therefore alarming. This is what leads to extremist tendencies in Europe – although they will not want to hear this today – such as that of Mr Le Pen. Secondly, the association agreements with third countries are there for a reason, but some of these countries only see them as a source of funding and do not apply those parts which relate to cooperation and dialogue in such important areas as their taking responsibility for regulating migratory flows from their territories. And Morocco is a clear example, as demonstrated by what is happening on its borders with Spain. Let there be no mistake: if the countries from which immigration originates do not put their house in order, the problem will continue. I believe we shall have to start thinking about making serious demands within the framework of the commitments made within agreements. Our external borders are not closed to those who wish to cooperate in our development in a legal and regulated fashion or those who want to live together on the basis of respect, which must be mutual, for the customs, cultures, security and liberty of those of us who live in the geographical and political area of the European Union. –  Mr President, one of the objectives highlighted by the recent Tampere, Feira and Nice Summits, by resolutions of this Parliament and by the Euro-Mediterranean Forum, which we held in Brussels only last week, is the combating of the organised networks that traffic in immigrants. This is a despicable traffic, which causes so much harm and even tragedy amongst the immigrants themselves and great concern within the European Union, a concern sometimes greater than that seen in some of these immigrants’ countries of origin, although it is a hard thing to say. We must therefore receive the two French initiatives with satisfaction. But the report by Mr Ceyhun suffers from a lack of legal rigour, which if not corrected will make it impossible to vote in favour – and believe me I am sorry – particularly on the point I am about to mention. I am personally acquainted with the magnificent work that some NGOs are doing in this field; the humanitarian care many of them are giving surpasses their own means. But from that to generalising that if an association performs the criminal action of providing organised aid for the entry, residence or movement of illegal immigrants it should be exempt from liability, is going too far. This is because profit or financial benefit, as for example happens in Spanish criminal law, is an aggravating circumstance but it is not the essential component in characterising the crime of trafficking in human beings. This does not mean that there are not aspects of the report that can be accepted and which I applaud, such as the compensation for the regions that most suffer from migratory pressure or prosecution of employers who use and abuse these workers illegally. Finally, in any case, I believe that in this battle against illegal immigration the cooperation of the countries of origin is absolutely necessary, since without it any attempt to combat these criminal networks is doomed to failure. The European Union alone cannot control this migration phenomenon if it cannot count on the essential collaboration of the countries from which the migration originates. – I am ashamed to hear what I have heard from the mouth of the President of the Spanish Socialist delegation. I must remind her that one Socialist Minister has been found guilty of kidnap and the Socialist Government of her leader, Felipe González, was found guilty by the Court of Human Rights for the expulsion of 103 immigrants on the border of Melilla. But, furthermore, I believe that the Council has responded correctly and it would be a good thing if the Socialist Member, who is also spokesperson for her delegation, would do her duty and study this thing called European construction in a little more depth and not make fools of her parliamentary group with questions concerning issues which are not within Community competence and which need to be resolved on a national level. If her strategy consists of discrediting the Spanish Government with falsities and furthermore displaying a deceitful, irrational and irresponsible sectarianism, she is showing a clear incapacity to understand her mission in this Parliament – which is not to exploit the tragic death of a child – then it is truly worrying that her job has started in this way. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask you what policy of economic and social solidarity the Council intends to propose in the case of the numerous families that move from one country to another for purely economic reasons. . Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by stressing the importance and significance of the recommendation we are debating today. What we are dealing with today is the first initiative, in the form of a Green Paper, aimed at considering, together with other instruments, the future proposal for a framework decision which will regulate – as its title states – the minimum rules on the procedural safeguards for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings throughout the European Union. Judicial cooperation between the States of the European Union, in both the civil and the criminal fields, is reaching levels which were unimaginable a few years ago. These levels will reach their peak when, at the beginning of 2004, the European arrest warrant enters into force, if things go to plan and despite certain difficulties which appear to remain in certain Member States. This is why, at the moment, when the construction of the European area of freedom, security and justice is making progress, and concern about terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration is increasing, we are seeing greater cooperation between police and judicial bodies of the Member States and it is becoming essential that we do not continue to ignore the necessary safeguards which suspects and defendants must enjoy during the criminal proceedings so that their right to a fair and impartial trial is guaranteed at all times. The purpose of the recommendations we are debating today is, therefore, simply to achieve a degree of unification of procedural practices in the Member States, on the basis of the rights established in the European Convention on Human Rights, the case-law of the Strasbourg Court and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and within the framework of the judicial and criminal convergence which today is being achieved in the European Union, based on mutual recognition, described as the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in the civil and criminal fields in the Union by the Tampere European Council. It was at that same important European Council that the foundations were laid which have led us to be here today discussing the minimum procedural safeguards for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings in the Union, since there was insistence there on the need to carry out work in relation to aspects of procedural law with regard to which it is considered necessary to have minimum common standards in order to facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition, respecting the fundamental legal principles of the Member States. The Green Paper sets out the reasons why the proposals have been restricted to the five rights which appear in it: legal aid, translation and interpreting, information about rights, the protection of vulnerable suspects and defendants and consular assistance. I wonder, Commissioner, Mr President, whether it would not have also been useful to have in some way considered the types of crime which affect all or the majority of States, which, to a certain extent, would have complemented the necessary unification of procedural practices. The admissibility and weight of evidence, judgments in absentia and the regulation of bail are being left for a subsequent occasion and I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Commissioner how that work is going – and these are issues which certain groups have been determined to include in the recommendation, despite the fact that that is not its purpose. I believe that the approach which has been taken in drawing up the Green Paper is sensible, because it is still an undeniable reality that criminal jurisdiction is the central core of the sovereignty of the States, and is therefore very inflexible when it comes to establishing substantial common procedures and systems. And, although the idiosyncrasies of each European society and their own legal cultures must be seen as reasons for this resistance, it is also the case that the criminal process is a system which imposes limits on the State, which is a measure of the quality of that State in terms of the Rule of Law and respect for the citizen, something which this House, as the ultimate expression of its will, must always defend. There is, therefore, no question that this is a timely proposal, something which cannot lead us to think that the instruments approved so far – such as the European arrest warrant – have meant any undermining of the fundamental rights and safeguards of our citizens, but which nevertheless does make it necessary for progress in this direction to be complemented by a degree of unification of procedural safeguards. That aside, I must reject the two amendments presented by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, which are aimed at making the entry into force of the European arrest warrant conditional upon the entry into force of the framework decision on procedural safeguards. I reject these amendments because the scheduled date for the entry into force of the European arrest warrant is January 2004 and because the arrest warrant in itself is based on reciprocal trust between the different judicial systems of the Member States, even though it is essential that the implementation of the minimum standards imposed by the framework decision is carried out urgently and as soon as possible. I just wanted to stress the most controversial point and the point which has given rise to the greatest discrepancies between certain political groups. Finally, I do not want to miss this opportunity to thank the political groups for the practically unanimous support this report has received in committee and which I hope will be reproduced tomorrow. – Mr President, we have a problem: we are not moving with events. We are here today for the 58 victims of Dover. Like Mrs Terrón, I am also from a country, Spain, in which we unfortunately witness hundreds of deaths and disappearances in the Straits of Gibraltar and the Andalusian coasts. There are outbreaks of violence and xenophobia all over Europe and, while here we are talking about a new globalised economic society and a new information society, we do not realise that organised crime, trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation and drug-trafficking have also become globalised. All of this is interconnected. That is to say, we are talking about a new form of criminality and human slavery which reminds us of the pre-abolitionist era in the United States. Chinese, Moroccans, Russians and South Americans are transported, extorted and advised by mafias. This is the responsibility of some very important international organisations and there is a desperate need for international cooperation to combat one of the most shameful violations of human rights; international cooperation of European police forces and judges with police and judges in the countries where the migrants come from, who also have responsibility for the problem. If they do not have administrative, judicial or police structures, we will have to cooperate with them so that they may be provided with them. In this regard, the Action Plans which were mentioned by the representative of the Council may have an important role to play and I hope we can debate them in Parliament more transparently than we have up to now. We must go beyond words – as he has also said – because words do not solve the problem. We must give the necessary resources to Europol, so that it can work effectively, and to the Action Plans, so that they can be carried out, to the refugee fund and to our borders, so that they can carry out the corresponding controls, because, unfortunately, without economic resources, nothing can be achieved. Anything else is mere verbiage and preaching. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to begin my speech without expressing my gratitude, in my capacity as a Spaniard and as chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, for the European Council’s support for this Parliament's proposal that 11 March should be the European day for commemorating the victims of terrorism. Recent events, as well as causing us dismay and anguish, have made us aware – as we in my country have unfortunately been for a long time – that the civilised world is at risk, in danger, from a new enemy whose limits cannot be defined: terrorism. And combating this enemy, which has many tentacles and which kills in a merciless and brutal manner, does not involve a normal war, it is not a traditional war, but it is – and there is not the least doubt of this – an unequal and criminal war against societies built upon principles such as freedom and democracy. The European Union must unite in its efforts and urgently implement all the legal, financial and human instruments needed to combat terrorism. For all these reasons, I believe this Parliament is obliged to send the European Council a message of support for the measures it adopted on 25 March, contained in its Statement against Terrorism, but also, with the legitimacy we have as representatives of the European citizens, to tell it that we cannot accept the lack of political will on the part of the Member States to implement these measures for a minute longer, as is currently the case – and I would stress just a couple of the most obvious examples, such as the European arrest warrant or the framework decision on terrorism. And it is even less acceptable that, for purely budgetary or procedural reasons, the most effective instruments in the fight against terrorism, such as the Anti-Terrorist Unit, created within Europol as a result of the 11 September attacks, should be dismantled. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, reality demonstrates that the European Union is often faced with significant difficulties when it comes to adopting decisions, and with 25 Member States I fear that this will mean that  many decisions will be deadlocked. So why do we not – following the example of the last European Council, which used the solidarity clause, laid down in the still draft constitutional treaty – anticipate the implementation of the system for adopting decisions by qualified majority, already included in the text of our future constitution? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe – and I will end here – that this would make our work to combat what has shown itself to be the greatest danger currently facing the stability of democratic societies based on the rule of law much easier. Our citizens deserve no less, ladies and gentlemen. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would like to thank you for being in the European Parliament today to discuss issues which do not only have a large human component, but which also have a very high profile in the media and in politics; immigration and asylum. I will refer firstly to immigration. It is a good thing that it is said and repeated time and time again in this House that regulated migratory flows make a very positive contribution to the development of the receiving country, the situation of immigrants themselves and even the development of the country of origin. But it should also be repeated that the unrestricted arrival of persons in an illegal manner leads to a saturation of the structures of our societies and ends up exceeding those societies’ capacity for reception, resulting in situations of inequality and marginalisation. We therefore need a coherent European policy which takes account of all the elements inherent to the phenomenon of migration. The European Councils in Tampere, Laeken and Seville have represented a significant advance in the field of immigration. Nevertheless, not without reason, many people have criticised the lack of agreement in non-repressive fields, as my colleague and predecessor, Mr Watson, has said; it is true that, on the basis of such tragic events as those which take place on an almost daily basis in the waters of the Straits of Gibraltar, or on Italian coasts, vigilance, border control and the fight against mafias and exploiters of illegal workers, can and must be the response to the concerns of the citizens, who are increasingly sensitive to issues such as insecurity and human trafficking. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the importance of other aspects still awaiting substantial progress. Firstly, the intensification and reconsideration of the policy of development aid in order to generate, in the countries of origin, a dignified and promising environment and thereby prevent the exodus of people – the majority of whom are young – who, rather than fleeing towards the unknown, risking their lives, could and should play an essential role in the development of their own countries. Secondly, to begin work on the implementation of an observatory, which at the moment is virtual, for migration, which by means of analysis and distribution of information, would allow us to deal with the phenomenon of immigration on the basis of true facts, which are reliable and comparable between Member States, as the Commissioner has just acknowledged. Thirdly, promoting the integration of legal immigrants, one of the keys to the success of any immigration policy, by means of measures which include family reunification, the education of children, non-discrimination, access to housing, facilities for the learning of the language of the reception country, or social or health measures. Now, in order to prevent clashes with the receiving society, and as was acknowledged at the fourth Mediterranean forum in Bari, held on 17 and 18 June, it is necessary not to forget the twin aspects of the phenomenon, that is, the need to also work to ensure the respect on the part of the immigrants for the principles and values of the society receiving them. Finally, cooperation with countries of origin and transit in a spirit of partnership and co-responsibility, as agreed at the aforementioned forum, on the control of migratory flows, the fight against illegal immigration, the adoption of national readmission agreements and integrated management of the Union’s borders. This is a task which, in order to be successful, must be carried out in close cooperation with the third countries bordering the European Union. And to move on to the field of asylum, Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of, and respect for, the Geneva Convention, regulating, in a complementary manner, other necessary forms of international protection for those cases included in it. However, I regret once again to have to make a criticism, as I did when we discussed the directive, for which I was rapporteur, in relation to the conditions for receiving and asylum because, in practice, the negotiations on the different aspects of the asylum policy are still being carried out in a confused and disorganised fashion. There is a saying: ‘do not bite off more than you can chew’; and I have the feeling that this is the current situation in the field of asylum. It is also incongruous to discuss proposals which, in their provisions, depend on concepts regulated by others, the negotiations of which should have been concluded earlier, but which instead are making no progress. I would therefore appeal to you to rationalise the European process, and let us not get tied up in vicious circles which are highly influenced by national interests. Finally, Mr President, last but not least, I would like to draw the attention of the Commission and the Council to the fact that, with the entry into force of the Treaty of Nice, scheduled for 1 February, the Parliament-Council codecision procedure, and the qualified majority, will be applicable in such sensitive areas as all those which relate to the minimum standards regulating the different aspects of the procedures, requirements and conditions for asylum. . – Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to highlight that the amendments presented by the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms have been accepted by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and, in particular, the demand in Articles 41 and 42 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights for good administration and access to the texts of the institutions (this corresponds to Amendment No 1 of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms). The promotion of free computer programs is an option increasingly used by public administrations and which democratises access to and the use of public documents and data. In fact, if we make the documents available in a format not linked to the use of specific computer programs involving payment, we reduce the discrimination relating to the wealth of the users. It is important to promote the use of the information by people with diminished sensory capacity, for example through a textual description of the graphs and pictures contained in the documents. Furthermore, the advertising of all generally accessible documents, including those relating to judicial and administrative procedures, must reach the public sector. This is a fundamental instrument for the development of the right of citizens to knowledge and a fundamental principle of democracy. This objective is applicable to institutions at all levels, local, national and international, and furthermore it is necessary for the public administrations, whatever their institutional level, to promote and support the reuse of the information provided. I would end by stressing that we naturally believe that all these principles should also apply to the European institutions. – Mr President, we are dealing with a novel report by Mr Cornillet which, as he himself recognises, is limited and incomplete due to a lack of resources, which he has tried to substitute through personal effort and this is worthy of recognition. It is difficult to analyse what is happening in each Member State and, above all, know the facts and circumstances which affect each country in the light of our recent Charter of Fundamental Rights and, therefore, we must continue to study the procedure in depth. I would like to thank him expressly for his sensitivity to one of the most fundamental rights of human beings, the right to life, which, together with freedoms of expression and movement, is being persistently violated by ETA in an area of European territory, the Basque Country, and in Spain as a whole. Unfortunately, terrorism has warranted a specific mention with a new section which refers to the right to life and the intensification of the fight against terrorism, based on the legal instruments agreed at the Tampere Summit to combat it, such as, for example, the arrest order, which we are creating at the moment. Another aspect, which the Socialist Group in particular should reflect on, given that they do not even accept its application in places where the governments are of its same colour, is that mentioned in points 119 and 120, which recognise the right to vote of citizens of third countries, not only in local elections, but also in European elections. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not start building the house from the roof. When we have still not been capable of laying the foundations of genuine integration, which include education, housing, healthcare and the mutual respect for our cultures, there is still much to be done in the field of immigration and asylum. And false demagoguery will only hinder the resolution of such a serious problem. – Madam President, if something characterises the production of this report on terrorism, it has not just been the rigour and know-how of the rapporteur, Mr Watson, whom I would expressly like to congratulate, but also the willingness and understanding of almost all the political groups in this House to reflect not only their rejection and condemnation of terrorism, the people involved in it and the methods it uses, but also to reach a consensus on the legal instruments which we must create at European level in order to combat and pursue the crimes involved in terrorist activity and organised crime. We can state unreservedly, without any doubt – at least on my part – that the approval of this report would represent a European pact against terrorism. Because, for the people of Europe, violence and terror are absolutely incompatible with democracy, dialogue and the rules of the game which the democratic States have set ourselves in order to live together in peace and, in particular, in order to resolve absolutely every – and I stress, absolutely every – one of our problems and differences of whatever nature. Nationalist or independence movements that use terrorist organisations such as ETA in Spain as decoys are only really hiding the reality of their trade whose only objective is to spread terror, destabilise democracy and indiscriminately murder children, young people and adults of any trade or profession. Another argument endorsed by this report is the urgent need to update the legal instruments which a new area without borders, such as the European Union, must have so that it is not easier for the violent people and terrorist groups to carry out their criminal acts than it is for the police and judges to pursue and punish them. Because, Madam President, Commissioner, it is contradictory that there should be barriers and borders for judges and police while, for example, criminal groups organise themselves in one country of the European Union, carry out attacks in another and then return to shelter under legislation that is obsolete and incompatible with a common area of freedom, security and justice. Hence the need for the four recommendations, which are the backbone of the report. It is true that Spain and its government are particularly interested in what we resolve here today, but so should other countries such as France, Belgium, Italy or the United Kingdom or the other countries of the Union, because the roots of terrorism are in violence, its funding, the technological means it employs and the recruitment of young people who are trained, with money and hatred, to kill. And this is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, which transcends the borders of the European Union. Madam President, we are moving in the right direction. I must insist once again on the urgency of the proposals and the urgent need for us to continue truly creating a new area where there is only room and freedom of movement for those of us who want to live in peace and freedom. Commissioner Vitorino has the political support of this House. We genuinely await his proposals with great interest. – Mr President, if one thing singles out European society from the other societies of the world, it is precisely its sensitivity and commitment to the fight for freedom and human rights. However, I would like to say that this fight is not the exclusive property of the left. Sometimes, with cheap demagoguery and a progressivism which it cannot even define, the left tries to confuse the public with hypotheses which sometimes lack any content and are sometimes inadequate for the task of structuring society in accordance with certain values which our Group will always champion. That is what differentiates some benches from others. Article 13 is the starting point for a new EU objective: to combat discrimination or inequality in the treatment of citizens for the reasons listed therein. The action programme seems to me to be a serious programme. It is almost acceptable in its original form because, essentially, it is directed at something fundamental, that is, educating European society in the value of the human being, of whatever type. I believe that this is the central nucleus of the programme. I therefore consider that it is necessary to commit the public and private sectors to this task and, to this end, I believe that the public sector must provide an example. Public administrations and schools must be a model in the fight against discrimination and the same must be required, naturally to an equal extent, of the private sector. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the media must also play an important role in this task. Unfortunately today, certain sections of the media, such as television and the Internet, do not contribute through their programmes and advertisements to the dignified and respectful treatment of the sectors of society who most need that cooperation, such as, for example, women and children. The objective of also increasing the awareness of the media with regard to this task therefore seems to me to be a very good one. –  Mr President, for the first time ever in this Parliament we are talking about economic migration and asylum in distinct and separate terms, which could be considered to be a wise move by the European Commission in its respective communications for it will help us to give the debate a sense of order and clarity. This was one of Parliament’s requests that has now become reality. I would like to briefly share two thoughts with you on the issues that are the subject of this debate: firstly, that the migratory movements toward Europe we are now seeing correspond to a mass exodus of citizens who, in their own countries, do not enjoy the minimum conditions necessary for survival and who are being tragically exploited by the organised mafias who traffic in them. This has already been discussed here in Parliament. The cases in Dover and on our own Andalusian coast are clear examples of this. However, illegal immigration of this nature is fertile ground for the social exclusion of this immigrant population and for the exploitation of their labour, in addition to the outbreaks of xenophobia and racism that are taking place in certain parts of Europe. This problem can only be resolved by close cooperation and collaboration with the countries of origin, otherwise, any policy in this field will be condemned to failure. Community programmes such as PHARE, TACIS, MEDA, or the immigration and asylum action plans themselves are absolutely necessary. Yet at the same time, and I would like to put particular emphasis on this point, it must also be stressed, from a political angle in particular, that the countries of origin should make the most of their natural and human resources and, most of all, guarantee political and social stability so that their citizens can have confidence in their own leaders. This is, therefore, an issue of shared responsibility and not only the responsibility of the Member States or of the European Union itself. Countries such as Morocco, Algeria or Tunisia are an example of what I have just been referring to. On the other hand, with regard to the communication on the common asylum procedure, the main problem with which Member States are confronted is that of asylum seekers whose claims are unfounded. The Commission and this Parliament should, therefore, make a great effort to remove the major obstacles blocking the standardisation of solutions between Member States. On this subject, it does not seem to be the right occasion to talk about a common procedure, distinct from the mandate contained in the Treaty of Amsterdam that refers to a common asylum procedure. It is not the same. Furthermore, both the communication and the Evans report fail to define concepts such as persecution by third parties, persecution in cases of conflict or gender related persecution, for example, given that the difficulty sometimes lies more in the definition of the concept of the refugee than in the process of identifying it. To be precise, we are on the right track: faced with a phenomenon such as asylum and immigration, a concern for many of us, cooperation, solidarity, clear legislation and realism are the necessary prerequisites for addressing one of the major challenges for the European Union in this new century. . –  Mr President, I think that during our debate in the House on 14 May I stated what we perceived as the positive and negative features of the agreement now before us. I believe the recommendation I am presenting today on behalf of the committee I chair gives a faithful account of our views. Firstly, it is important that these agreements serve as instruments for broadening the scope of the protection of fundamental rights. This should be in line with the concept developed by Europe on the basis of our constitutions and the jurisprudence of the courts at Luxembourg and Strasbourg. The European Union cannot base negotiations on standards lower than those it demands of itself. This seems obvious to us and we cannot agree to extradition or to cooperation in criminal matters if the death penalty or an unfair trial might ensue. Military tribunals are an example of the latter. Secondly, these agreements can provide an opportunity for both parties to improve their respective procedures and even their legislation. The issue of data protection to be implemented on both sides of the Atlantic should be a case in point. Thirdly, no international agreement can make sense unless a reciprocity clause applies to both sides. We therefore call for the situation of those European citizens detained at the Guantánamo base to be resolved once and for all. My group does not wish signature of the agreements to be conditional on resolution. Nonetheless, we wish to state in the strongest possible terms that this situation must be resolved immediately. Fourthly, these agreements should also provide an opportunity to strengthen our internal legislation, making it more efficient. Existing arrangements between Member States should therefore take precedence. The European arrest warrant is a good example. These agreements should not compete with other relevant treaties such as that of the International Criminal Court. Fifthly, agreements as important as those signed with the United States must be monitored by the Council and the Commission. The agreements must also be monitored at parliamentary level by a joint committee comprising Members of both the European Parliament and the United States Congress. It is in both parties’ interest to set up such a committee as soon as possible. Finally, I should like to turn to the most sensitive issue, namely the procedure announced by the Council in the course of the most recent debate in plenary. We have failed to note a positive response to our request for formal consultation between the decisions on signature and ratification of the agreements. These are the first international European Union agreements based on both the second and the third pillar. Regular consultation of Parliament is therefore required for a number of reasons. One reason is because consultation must be the norm for the adoption of acts pertaining to the third pillar, including acts that fall into the category of international agreements. Another is that parliamentary monitoring of this type of agreement is the rule in all Member States. Such monitoring must therefore be deemed a common principle, and the European Union is bound to take account of it pursuant to Article 6 of the Treaty of European Union. For all these reasons we believe that consultation with Parliament is the only procedure that would comply fully with the principles of democracy and the rule of law referred to in Article 1(6) of the Treaty on European Union. Let me put a question to you, Mr President. Now that we are drafting the a new Constitution for Europe, how could we justify to the citizens of Europe that agreements impinging directly on their human rights might come into force without being reviewed by the European Parliament? We feel that a Council decision to consult the Parliament concerning ratification of the treaties based on Articles 24 to 38 would be very much in line with the Treaty. It would also be entirely appropriate from the point of view of institutional policy, as has already been suggested by the Commission. Mr President, we trust the General Affairs Council will change its stance in the light of these arguments. It can only be in its interest and that of the Union as a whole for it to change its attitude and avoid creating a serious democratic deficit. –  Commissioner, I am grateful for your answer but I want to say this: in the last five-year period, 4 000 Moroccan and sub-Saharan immigrants have died in the waters of the Straits of Gibraltar and off the coasts of the Canary Islands and, unfortunately hundreds of Moroccan minors crossing borders into the Spanish towns of Ceuta and Melilla are causing reception centres to overflow and have furthermore been committing serious attacks on the employees of those centres. I feel, Commissioner, that Morocco must shoulder its responsibilities and these facts prove that it is not fulfilling its duties. I therefore ask you again, Commissioner, do you not think, given the gravity of this situation, that the current financial framework of aid to Morocco should be made dependent on its fulfilling its obligations in the field of immigration and of the control of its borders with the European Union? Mr President, Commissioner, I believe it is important that, for the first time in this legislature – though a little late – we are holding a debate on the phenomenon of migration linked to two relevant and important issues: the integration of immigrants residing legally in the European Union – and I would stress the aspect of legality in the reception society – and the way this relates to employment opportunities, as an essential element of economic immigration. We are dealing with the important issue of determining the reception capacity of the Member States according to the needs of their labour markets, and we are doing so from two points of view: quantitative and qualitative. It is therefore crucial for governments to make realistic offers which are as far as possible in line with available jobs, temporary or permanent, which can be filled by means of migratory flows, which ultimately have the effect of balancing the European Union's demographic deficit. This would be of benefit to the Member States and the immigrants’ countries of origin. Furthermore, the problem is currently arising – with tragic results in many cases, as we are seeing – of the emergence of a hidden economy in sectors such as agriculture, domestic service and construction; an economy which is fed partly by illegal immigration and which leads to subhuman situations and conditions both from a strictly employment point of view and from a social point of view. This leads to the establishment of ghettos and communities which are entirely fragmented and that face serious problems in surviving in the host countries. Having said this, Commissioner, Mr President, we can spend every day holding seminars and meetings, and applying all our attention to multiculturalism and integration from a religious point of view, and other issues, which lead us nowhere unless we establish crystal clear conditions for legal and ordered entry which guarantee immigrants a job in the European Union and facilitate their reception and social, cultural and political integration. In short, Mr President, from a human point of view. With regard to the political aspect of integration, which has been subject to much debate today, I believe that our Group’s Amendment No 4 must be given particular attention by the other political groups. For example, how can we ask for the right to vote in European elections for immigrants residing legally – I imagine – in the Union, when they cannot vote, for logical and constitutional reasons, in the legislative elections of the State they live in? That is, they cannot elect the governments of the Member States but they can elect that of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, allow me to say that this is a crazy proposal, and that the Groups supporting it must seriously reconsider. On voting issues, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, there must be no room for demagoguery. In any event, we can do nothing if we restrict ourselves to wishing to resolve this problem by making the European Union solely responsible, without demanding that countries of origin co-operate very actively in the ordered flow of their own immigrants, which would mean these countries having the necessary administrative structures to organise their migratory flows, also making it more attractive for their own workers to return and, naturally, preventing mass exoduses, as is currently the case in certain border countries or, also – let us not forget – from countries on the other side of the Atlantic, as a result of their economic, political and social instability. –  Mr President, in politics, dogmas are overcome by the will of the majority and in this case I believe my fellow Members, whose speeches I heartily welcome, have made their will very clear. Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, the latest 2002 barometer published by the Commission indicates that six months after 11 September more than two out of three European citizens considered that the fight against terrorism was a matter that should be addressed at European Union level rather than at national level. Eighteen months later, however, do the European Union and the Member States still deserve this trust? That is the context in which today’s debate should be considered. We are meeting to debate the progress made by the European Union in the tough fight against terrorism and its future strategy. Following the intensive work and efforts carried out, the time has come to stop and think: what have we achieved? Where have we failed? And consequently, what are the next steps we should take? Certainly an enormous amount of work has been carried out. We should think about the adoption of the action plan in the fight against terrorism, the approval in record time of a common definition and penalties, and the arrest and surrender warrant, in addition to the establishment – as has already been said here – of Eurojust and the revitalisation of Europol. Nevertheless, we must be honest, not only with ourselves, but also with our citizens. Faced with the reality and current state of the terrorist threat, many European measures are still only theoretical. The 11 September attacks brought to light all the obstacles to the full creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. In the event of another crisis situation, do you believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the citizens of Europe, and, to a greater extent, the victims of terrorism and their families, would be satisfied if we explained that the lack of effectiveness of the reaction of the European Union is due to its very architecture comprising pillars, the difficulty of adopting decisions unanimously, the attitudes of certain Member States, the refusal to exchange data with Europol? I sincerely doubt it. September 11 made us realise that the European Union is not fully adapted to the new world context. I am going to highlight three fundamental aspects. The first is that terrorism aims to destabilise the Rule of Law. Our task must therefore be to reinforce the content and legitimacy of European legislation. Today there is only one way of doing this: approving the work of the Convention on the future of the European Union to communitarise every aspect of the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice and subject them to the same rules of democratic and jurisdictional control. The aim of terrorism is to foster conflict between citizens of the same community. We must take into account the fact that terrorism is not just the person who plants a bomb or fires a gun, but that it also involves an infrastructure, financial means, legal advice, information on possible objectives and places to take shelter. The repulsion felt by society itself towards all those who use crime and threats is therefore a fundamental aspect of the fight against terrorism. Lastly, terrorism takes advantage of the opening-up of our societies to cause as much harm as possible. The terrorists take advantage of the eradication of physical borders and the remaining legal and police borders between the Member States, and it is therefore vital to progress in the creation of this space to prevent it from being abused through the courts. In the committee I have the honour of chairing, we shall continue to give the same attention to the results of the application of the action plan against terrorism and the future strategy of the Union. We also reserve the right to inform Parliament should we see that the Union’s commitment against terrorism is weakened or if the disputes between authorities or governments endanger the safety of European citizens. – Madam President, this is the first in a series of directives that have to complete the first part of the timetable which aims to introduce, in the longer term, a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for people who are granted asylum. That is the spirit, and also the letter, of the Tampere agreements and the Treaty of Amsterdam, although we should discuss the legal basis of the common asylum procedure and uniform status. I would very briefly like to mention to the Commission certain reservations of a technical nature that arise as a result of the proposed directive we are analysing. The first relates to the extension of the minimum rules for asylum procedures. I believe that the proposal puts excessive stress on regulation and that a common asylum procedure is never intended to be a single procedure or the same procedure for all States. I am afraid that the Commission may have gone beyond what was agreed at Tampere. The second reservation relates to the Commission’s interest in regulating time limits, because I am wondering: is a long procedure a factor in the rejection of asylum seekers? That does not mean that we are in favour of a long procedure. However, from a practical point of view, European countries with long waiting times – more than two or three years – have greater numbers of asylum seekers, and countries such as Spain, with much shorter waiting times, have far fewer. Harmonisation of these waiting times is acceptable if it is due to a concern for the legal correctness of the procedure, but I fear that it may be inefficient and instil fear for both material and political reasons. The third and final reservation is of a conceptual nature. I believe that the difficulties in homogenising decisions stem more from the definition of a refugee than from the procedure for identifying one as such. Concepts such as ‘safe third country’, ‘third party persecution’, ‘persecution in the event of conflict’ or ‘state or non-state persecution’ are examples of some of these problems. Perhaps, as I said before, we should deal with the definition before the procedure. – Mr President, a resolution on the freedom of the world press makes no sense unless it contains, firstly, the solidarity of this Parliament with a Basque, Spanish and European journalist, Mr Gorka Landaburu, the recent victim of an ETA attack immediately following the Basque elections. Secondly, it should contain a clear call for the protection and guarantee of the freedom to exercise the profession of journalist, threatened as it is – and this is something that Parliament should be aware of – in a part of Europe, the Basque Country. Mr President, the political wing of ETA was severely punished at the ballot boxes, and what was its response? The immediate response of this criminal organisation, once again, was to intimidate, threaten and make an attempt on the life of a journalist who was doing nothing more than defending the values on which European society is based, defending peaceful coexistence and defending the freedom of the Basque people. The enemies of freedom of expression, of democracy and of life do not deserve to be citizens of the Europe that we are building on such strong foundations as freedom, security and justice for those who live and move around in European territory. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the aim of the amendment that my group is tabling and which I hope will receive the support of the political groups in this House, and I also thank Mr Sánchez García for announcing it. –  Mr President, Mr Brok made a request at the beginning of his speech and I believe that at the very least this deserves an answer from the Presidency. In any case, I confirm what he said, taking into account, furthermore, that, when the mandate was given for this resolution, the Conference of Presidents consulted the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. That is why it appears on the parliamentary staff’s list of votes. – Mr President, in March, the Delegation for Relations with the Maghreb countries and the Arab Maghreb Union, of which I am vice-chairman, made a visit to Tunisia, where we observed that, while there has been undeniable economic progress, there exists a democratic deficit in the field of freedoms, particularly in the area of the press and the audiovisual media. We were also able to observe – and I think this should be stressed – that the Tunisian authorities are aware of this deficit, which they justified time and time again through the need to temper their political openness in accordance with their particular idiosyncrasies and culture as well as the danger to Tunisian society of the growth of Islamic fundamentalism. They therefore asked for understanding and patience. I must say that the Tunisian Government has made gestures which indicate goodwill. They made these gestures during our visit and this is reflected in the report which the delegation has presented to Parliament. In the view of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats and European Democrats), we are therefore holding a debate which is necessary but which should not take the form of an exaggerated and alarmist condemnation, which is often what happens, but which should recognise certain facts which concern us because they affect the areas covered in the association agreement, such as the respect for human rights and democratic principles. This issue must be resolved by means of political and social dialogue, and an effort on the part of the Tunisian Government to implement legislation which will guarantee political pluralism in a real sense and not in a purely formal sense and, above all, provide the necessary freedom so that the citizens can express their opinions and the media can reflect them. This is the message which this House must send to the Tunisian authorities, who must receive them in the positive light in which they are intended. To this end, within the framework of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, the Commission, the Council and Parliament must not go into reverse with regard to the aid programmes which must be implemented within the framework of MEDA II. Education and training in democratic principles are a fundamental element of sustaining a plural and democratic society. Young people, judges, the police and journalists need to have full knowledge of the rights they must exercise and defend. This is the area in which the European Union can and must cooperate. It also concerns me that Commissioner Patten, who is present, is not sufficiently sensitive to the serious problems currently faced on the southern side of the Mediterranean, where Tunisia plays a very important role. Emigration, fundamentalism, poverty and political instability cannot be resolved by pronouncements and good intentions alone. We need true political will and the economic and human resources to put it into practice. In any event – and this could serve as a summary of the debate – we cannot restrict our cooperation with third countries to purely trade and economic issues. To this end, we also ask Tunisia, together with economic reforms, also to make progress with political reforms aimed at guaranteeing freedoms, but with the aid and cooperation which, of course, they receive and will continue to receive from us, at least from my Group. We also believe that we need a common strategy in the Mediterranean, as the resolution states, and that, together with political, social and security aspects, special attention is paid to the cultural and human dimension. This is why we need to strengthen the interparliamentary dialogue and the dialogue with the representatives of civil society. As we say in my country, By talking we come to understand people’. If one thing characterises the people of the Mediterranean, it is the wealth of their thought and their words, and that, ladies and gentlemen, costs very little. Mr President, I am reassured by the fact that the first three speakers in this debate are intimate with this situation given our African origin. I must firstly congratulate the groups in this House on the high degree of consensus achieved in the motion for a resolution. I am aware of the efforts made by Members to avoid using an issue such as this for electoral purposes. Secondly, I must also assert my total conviction that neither Spain nor Andalusia is xenophobic or racist. Of course this does not mean that I do not totally condemn the violence used by individuals or groups who deserve to be prosecuted firmly and rigorously by the law, and by the law alone. We should be tackling the issue of immigration in a comprehensive and rigorous manner. These events, which are unfortunately overshadowing the political decisions in this area, confirm without doubt that the development of the Tampere Agreements and Title IV of the EC Treaty must be an urgent priority. Today’s problems cannot be solved in five years. They will take a long time, as we are finding out. The legislation of the Member States must be brought into line with the agreements of the governments in Tampere, as paragraph 7 of the motion states. Legal immigrants must be integrated socially without any excuses or delays. Furthermore, the labour market must be organised realistically so that jobs held by third country nationals are subject to labour legislation on wages, social security and social protection in terms of equality. This will eradicate the labour exploitation and markets in marginalised people, which are resulting in the events condemned by the motion, and which are the real basis of the current social problem. Solidarity, dialogue and agreements between local, regional, national and European institutions and employers, unions and the immigrant communities themselves, whose countries of origin must also undoubtedly assume some responsibility, are essential. Collaboration with the countries of origin on this issue is vital. In this respect, the action plans approved by the High Level Group and the Tampere European Council must be allocated a budget. Specifically, I must stress in this debate the plan for Morocco. This is a country with which the European Union has an effective relationship and common interests and which should take particular priority in mutual cooperation and collaboration. Finally, this House must tackle the phenomenon of immigration with sufficient calm to avoid increasing tension in a debate which must go much further than the appropriate words and condemnations prompted by such behaviour. This is a very important social debate in the creation of a European area in which the right to freedom, security and justice will be recognised in the future Charter of Fundamental Rights. – Mr President, in the event that the amendments we are presenting to Mrs Boumediene-Thiery ’s report are not accepted, my group will vote against it for reasons which I believe to be fundamental. The directives under debate today refer to the free movement and residence of students as well as people who have ceased professional activity or who are economically inactive and who, furthermore, receive disability or old-age pensions or subsidies – all of them Community citizens – as well as the exceptions laid down in another directive on expulsion for reasons of public order, security or public health. The problem is that Mrs Boumediene-Thiery widens the scope of these directives to include citizens of third countries. For example, section 20 of the resolution extends family reunification to non-Community families and their relatives in ascending and descending lines, who are not dependent on the resident, which would increase admission without restrictions. Furthermore, to treat unmarried couples on the same terms as married couples, which does not raise many problems in the case of Community citizens, given the diversity of the legislation, does raise problems in the case of third country citizens because there would be very real problems recognising stable cohabitation. It would give rise to so-called marriages of convenience or false marriages, and that amounts to fraud.. Furthermore, I believe that all the false logic which is used when referring to migrant workers has no place in this debate, not so much because of the subject matter but rather because it is not appropriate for the study of these directives. As the Commission says, the level of information needs to be improved so that European citizens are crystal clear as to what their rights are with regard to moving freely within the internal market, with clear, concise and specific rules and using communication technologies such as the Internet, the television, or local and regional media. Commissioner, the suggestion that replies to parliamentary questions should reach our various citizens by means of the methods of communication considered appropriate, does not seem to me to be a good procedure. I think that it is impractical, apart from anything else because not even MEPs always read those replies. It is also necessary to eliminate the absurd amount of paperwork needed to justify the nature and size of the pension. I believe that an identity card for pensioners and the use of computers should replace these cumbersome forms of authorising payments. The same would apply to students. In order to facilitate their mobility, we should free them of unnecessary costs and make their residence compatible with their periods of study or apprenticeship. Finally, I would also like to point out that it makes no sense to link public order, as section 6 of the resolution does, with the Schengen area in a proposal aimed at the citizens of the European Union, who are not governed by the Schengen legislation but by Community directives, in particular those relating to public order. In order to update the legislation, I believe it is necessary to revise the texts by means of a new regulation and simplify the obstacles to free movement and to the residence of Community citizens. – Madam President, on Wednesday of last week an aircraft of the company, which flies between Málaga and Melilla, crashed near Málaga airport killing four and injuring seventeen. It is the second time in two years that the city of Melilla has suffered a tragedy of this nature. On this occasion, thanks to the skill and professionalism of the pilots – one of whom died – almost all the passengers survived. Madam President, I would ask you to communicate our feelings and our solidarity to the families of the victims and the injured, with the conviction that the European Commission and this Parliament are demonstrating their concern for the quality and maintenance of the safety of air transport, as the debate we are holding this very Tuesday will show, when the European Commission presents its reports on this subject. – Mr President, since the Barcelona conference and now on the eve of the Marseilles conference, as has already been said, a great deal has taken place in the Mediterranean region. It is true that this Conference is going to take place in a context of violence and of a peace crisis as a result of the conflict in the Middle East, but it is also true that holding the conference will enable us to keep the flame of the Euro-Mediterranean process burning and that it should not be contaminated by the tragic conflict. There are many common problems that are currently affecting the Euro-Mediterranean area: illegal immigration, poverty, foreign debt, human rights, drought and terrorism, which mercilessly destroys the lives of innocent individuals and families, as we are tragically experiencing in Spain, Algeria and the Middle East. Now more than ever we need to proclaim that only regional cooperation, dialogue with civil society, economic and cultural exchange, solidarity and mutual understanding can make the two shores of the Mediterranean a prosperous and peaceful area. The Commission and the Council need to urgently undertake what was agreed in Feira and they need to make a common policy for the development of the Mediterranean region viable. We cannot and must not waste our human resources, our agricultural, industrial or traditional craftsmanship resources which, along with such vital products as oil, gas and new technologies, should be basic tools for the development of a Mediterranean society that is much more balanced, fair and competitive than at present. Mr President, I will come back to the conflict in the Middle East; not two months ago, the Presidents of the Israeli Parliament and the Palestinian Assembly united in this House with the President of the European Parliament, in a plea for peace and harmony, and we all joined in hearty applause for that gesture. When weapons replace words, dialogue and understanding, the foundation and substance of democracy that is Parliament fails, and this is also our failure. It is a warning call to the European Union to play a much more active role in the Mediterranean area, which historically and culturally has enriched our European continent. It would be an error not to take on the leading role that history requires of us. In addition, I also think, Commissioner, that the borders that geo-politics demands should serve to prevent the free movement of those who make a way of life out of organised crime, the trafficking of arms, drugs and human beings and particularly terrorism, a way of life that is condemned by all civilised countries. Let us make borders a real filter for crime and criminals, and not a barrier to development, culture or the prosperity of peoples. The European Union needs a new culture of immigration and a better management of migration flows. The European Union is jointly responsible, with the countries of origin, for immigration and for organising those migration flows, which are so necessary for the development of the region. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like firstly, on behalf of my group, to welcome the 162 new Members of this House, and we hope that this first debate on freedom and security for citizens in the enlarged Europe and, for me, my last one as a Member of this House, will lead to some clear reflections, not only on the framework already created over more than 50 years of the European project, but also on the challenges facing us in this common future we have just begun. Freedom, security and justice. In my view, these are areas in which the urgent need to confront the profound changes which are approaching in a Europe of 450 million citizens and which, unfortunately, as we can see, sometimes moves forward as a result of such tragic events as terrorist attacks and the regrettable deaths of the victims of immigration, has been demonstrated. It is clear that the great challenge awaiting us is to organise a new geo-political and demographic space in a dynamic, changing and constantly growing Europe. I would therefore like to emphasise everything the Commissioner has just said on this point. We have worked intensively over the last five years to enshrine the guarantees and protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens, and the results can be seen, such as the approval of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the steps aimed at approving common guarantees in criminal proceedings throughout the Union and the implementation of the European arrest warrant, a guarantor for one of our principle rights, which is the right of society to pursue relentlessly those who endanger the lives and security of the citizens. Without forgetting the protection of the victims of crime and particularly the victims of terrorism. In any process, however, such as the one with which we are currently occupied, we must not forget to look forward. To this end, Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we must change anything that is not working. It is crucial that we modify the current decision-making method, with its cases of overlapping initiatives or delays resulting from the unanimity rules as well as flagrant delays in incorporating Community legislation into that of the Member States. We must also reinforce and make progress on the achievements already made. I would therefore like to insist on the proposal I made in the annual debate on the report on the area of freedom, security and justice, such as producing a Tampere II. Finally, I believe that the new European Constitution must enshrine the hope represented by the chapter aimed at the regulation of this new area, that is, we must bring the legal instruments into line with the reality of the dangers currently threatening the freedom and security of the citizens. It only remains for me, Mr President, to thank your Presidency and the Commissioner for your invaluable contribution to the defence of the values and rights of a society such as ours which wishes to feel increasingly free within a new enlarged area, in which security and justice, in turn, also provide the guarantees for that freedom. –  I must say that I am pleased with the Commission’s reply and positive attitude to seek formulas and implement measures that can effectively control the worst enemy of freedom and democracy: terrorism. But what is the problem, Commissioner? The problem is the urgent need to lay down some concrete deadlines for these measures to be implemented as quickly as possible. As you know, Commissioner, the European Parliament has urged that the European search and capture order should be pushed ahead as an instrument providing the necessary flexibility and speed to facilitate the capture, prosecution and sentencing of those who in European territory are violating the most fundamental right of all; the right to life. It would be a real aberration if in the new European Union area of freedom, security and justice the law served precisely to support those who committed such a despicable crime. . – Mr President, I have no doubt that in the age of new communications technologies, in the age of the Internet, which is well under way at the beginning of this new century, we legislators are faced with a very exciting challenge: to protect people from intrusion and from attacks on their private life, their dignity or their reputation. The protection of these rights is recognised in numerous legislative texts of a universal nature, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of a transnational nature, such as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Liberties, or of a national nature, such as the constitutions of the Member States, but the legislative diversity in this area requires that efforts be made in terms of the harmonisation and unification of criteria. The majority of countries are beginning a legislative process to prevent violations of people’s fundamental rights, such as the right to private life, and this right is also expressly included in Article 8 of the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights. We are therefore facing a legislative challenge of unquestionable importance, which must regulate to ensure that this right is respected and the exceptions which, in a democratic society, it is necessary to establish in order, as the Convention of the Protection of Human Rights says, to safeguard public security, defend public order and prevent crime. The report which I am presenting to Parliament aims to analyse one of the many aspects involved in this legislative task: the creation of a single secretariat for the three supervisory bodies for the protection of data from Europol, Schengen and customs information, within the framework of the third pillar and in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters enshrined in Chapter VI of the Treaty. The Council’s proposal for a decision is correct but is, in my view, timid and does not go far enough. In this delicate field of data protection we must achieve two fundamental objectives: transparency in the future functioning of the secretariat and the independence of its work. I do not believe that either objective is fully guaranteed in the Council’s proposal, hence the content of the amendments I am proposing, which have been accepted practically unanimously in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights. Justice and Home Affairs. I wonder whether it is a positive thing, in terms of transparency, to have three joint data protection bodies within the third pillar? I believe not. I therefore believe that the final objective should be the establishment of a single body corresponding to a single legal framework within the European Union and that that body be provided with its own budget and staff, even exceeding the normal distribution between pillars, taking advantage of the option provided for in Article 42 of the Treaty of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament is currently examining and debating the consequences for personal and economic relations in the European Union of the discovery of a possible spying network known as the Echelon system, and is also studying a regulation on the protection of physical persons in the processing of data by the institutions of the Community. We are furthermore now examining this proposal for the third pillar. As we will see, these are different aspects of the same problem. I therefore believe that this Parliament must go further than the Council’s decision, which, as I have said, falls short on aspects such as the election and appointment of the secretariat, its dismissal or the guarantee of professional secrecy in its functioning. Independence is another basic element which is not sufficiently guaranteed in the Council’s proposal. Parliament is the institution which must guarantee its independence, by means of the democratic control which legitimately corresponds to it. That is why in the future the body should be appointed by Parliament and the secretariat of the three bodies would enjoy more independence if the costs of staffing and the resources needed for its funding were to be included in section 8B of the general European Union budget, as I propose, and not in the Council’s budget. Let us not fool ourselves, financial independence is essential to guaranteeing functional independence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are legislating in a field which is fundamental to the future of our interpersonal, economic and commercial relations. Our challenge is to create a balance and compatibility between the right to privacy and the right of free access to information. The introduction of new technologies, computers and telecommunications has broken down barriers and transcended borders. There has been a genuine revolution in commercial, social and personal relations which have a real effect on the daily lives of citizens: health, advertising, banking transactions, or even aspects which relate to the security and defence of citizens, and of States themselves, can be jeopardised if there are no rules to guarantee the correct transmission and storage of the data which today circulate with total freedom and which are not immune to the serious danger of indiscriminate use. . – Mr President, unfortunately I must begin the debate on my report with the sad news of the tragic deaths of eleven immigrants off the coasts of Lanzarote. Too many words have been said, and they have not yet been able to stop this terrible tragedy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that only a miracle would allow my group and myself to vote in favour of the report with my name on it, since some of the amendments introduced in committee and others which are being presented again in this House make it very different from my initial ideas. Unfortunately, I believe that neither the Socialist Group nor the Liberal Group, which I understand even less, are up to taking responsible, rigorous and serious positions in the face of the phenomenon of immigration and asylum. It will therefore be very difficult for all of us to comply with the objective of implementing the mandate of the Treaty of Amsterdam on the communitarisation of the asylum procedure and, worse still, for Parliament’s views in this area to be taken into account by the Council, since they reflect party interests which do nothing to help resolve the serious problems which economic immigration and asylum pose for European society at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, frivolity, demagoguery and a lack of realism have very negative effects in certain societies which, like France, may leave the path free to parties or persons which, through their radicalism, may lead to dangerous social confrontations. Furthermore, it is the case that the current legislative process in relation to asylum is being carried out in an illogical and disordered fashion. This leads to the incongruous situation of our examining proposed directives which, like this one, regulate minimum rules for conditions for accepting asylum seekers, when much of their content depends on others which are still being dealt with in the Council, as in the case of the directive on procedures or the status of refugees, which is beginning to be debated by means of the Lambert report. To put it in a nutshell, we are beginning to build the house from the roof downwards. We must, however, move forward in any event, and Parliament accepts this disorder and wishes to cooperate, despite external and internal difficulties, as demonstrated, for example, by the fact that all the groups in committee have agreed to remove all references in the proposed directive to subordinating conditions for acceptance or medical treatment at the different stages of the procedure. Amongst the difficulties faced by my group in supporting this report is, firstly, the scope of the directive. My group and I believe that the persons included in the scope must be, as proposed by the Commission in its original text, those refugees defined in Article 1 of the Geneva Convention, leaving to the Member States the possibility that they may, by extension, be given other forms of protection. This makes sense, especially at a time when – and I will use the same words as Anna Terrón in committee – this Parliament is debating the Lambert report, which will give its opinion on the status of the refugee and subsidiary protection. If the Socialist Group wants to be consistent, it should support the thesis of the rapporteur and not be led by the Liberal Group, which, together with the Greens, intends to impose the extension of the directive to other forms of protection. With regard to schooling for minors, I believe that it should not go beyond what the Member States can guarantee for their own citizens. Certain Liberal and Green amendments – such as Amendments Nos 47, 48 and 50 – propose going further by obliging Member States to provide schooling, to guarantee nurseries and reduce the time limits for access to education. This is not realistic. Furthermore, access to the labour market is a point of conflict which I cannot understand, particularly because the Socialist Group accepted in committee, in its own amendment, the period of six months as a time limit within which the Member States must provide access to the labour market. To reduce it to four months, as the Liberal Group has proposed, and as approved in committee, is entirely inconsistent. It is logical that the Member States should have the room for manoeuvre laid down in the original text, and that they should be allowed to assess the situation of the labour market. With regard to the family members of asylum seekers, a compromise with Socialists and Liberals has lead to the agreement of a formula which is a departure from my group’s traditional position, for the sake of global consensus. What we will not accept under any circumstances is Amendment No 115, which the Group of the Greens is presenting once again, which goes much further than those commitments. Despite all of this, I would like to end, Mr President, by expressing my satisfaction at the references that appear in my report, thanks also to the opinion issued by the Committee on Legal Affairs, to the effect that the terrorist activity of asylum seekers should be a cause for a restriction of their right to acceptance. Mr President, I hope that later on in the vote, and as a result of the views expressed in this debate, the miracle I referred to at the beginning of my speech may take place. –  Mr President, a point of order just to say that I do not represent a party or even a Government: I represent Spain. And as a representative of Spain, when reference is made in this question to the authorities of the Spanish state, I am within my legitimate rights to defend my country, something that others do not do. . – I am surprised. I have asked for explanations of a series of accusations which have been made in this House and I have received no reply. I would ask that somebody answer my question. – Mr President, I would like to present an oral amendment to the first sub-paragraph of paragraph 135, which says the following: ‘calls on the institutions to provide access to opinions of the Legal Services, respecting the principles established by the Court of Justice’. I believe that this amendment would resolve the small problem which had arisen. – Mr President, I would like to address two messages to the President—in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission. The first is that we cannot and must not end this debate without a serious and rigorous political commitment, in order to put an end once and for all to the deaths, exploitation and trafficking in human beings, in other words, to the terrible human tragedies which we see daily on the southern Mediterranean border. Commitments rather than words. To the wave of 528 immigrants who a few days ago landed on the Andalusian coasts and in the Canary Islands, we must also add the approximately 70 who, it appears, have died trying to reach the coasts of Sicily. It is very possible, moreover, that today or tomorrow we will continue to add to this doleful list. The second message is that the European Union, as such, cannot deal with common immigration and asylum policies unless the agreements which the Member States adopt, either in interesting meetings such as the one that took place in La Baule, which may lead to the beginning of strengthened cooperation in this field, or in the meetings of the Council of Ministers, are not then reflected in cooperative policies which lead to the burdens and responsibilities being shared, both from an economic point of view, and in terms of human and material resources. I believe, therefore, that we need also to provide, for example, for the need to create a European fund for the repatriation of illegal immigrants. There are some countries, such as my own, Spain, which face high costs in cases of repatriation. Having said this, it is essential also that countries of origin and transit take a much more responsible attitude, and particularly those countries with whom we have association agreements, which should fulfil all the terms of those agreements and not just the economic ones. Equally, within the framework of these agreements, the Commission and the Council should appeal firmly and insistently to countries which, as in the case of Morocco or Tunisia, are the origin of the tragic events I have referred to. Mr President, we are going to vote on a resolution in paragraph 4 of which we state our support for and solidarity with the victims of terrorism and their families. By a fatal and terrible coincidence, on the very day on which we are calling for a European Day to commemorate these victims, the murderous terrorist group ETA has caused the condemnable massacre of more than 138 people and hundreds of injured at various points in Madrid. In my capacity as chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and also on behalf of the spokesmen of the groups who have offered me their support, I would like to table an oral amendment to paragraph 4 of this resolution referring to the date of the European Day, changing it from 11 September to 11 March. – Madam President, I would like to thank you for your words of condemnation and condolence. Of course, we also very much welcome the fact that you are prepared to visit the Basque Country. Madam President, murder and shootings in the back provide no solution for the problems of the Basque Country. Nor does the failure to condemn those people who carry out the most vile acts in this Europe which we are trying to build day by day – the Europe of freedom, security and justice. I am talking about the attacks on life, which is the most horrendous of all attacks on human rights. Madam President, we are once again debating an issue in this House with which we are all only too familiar. In fact, since data on passengers whose final destination or transit destination is the United States was first forwarded to the United States more than a year ago, this Parliament has expressed many concerns about the completely unacceptable way in which this information has been and is still being forwarded. Today, however, we are once again debating this issue, but in rather different circumstances. Firstly, because we have before us a Commission decision which describes the level of protection that the United States guarantees for the data forwarded to them as ‘adequate’, and, secondly, because the recent tragic attacks of 11 March in Madrid – following on from those of 11 September – oblige all of us to reflect and accept that only through international cooperation can we triumph over a brutal and merciless enemy which attacks free and democratic societies such as ours. Ladies and gentlemen, my group is not entirely satisfied with the decision the Commission is presenting to us. It even shares some of the criticisms expressed by the rapporteur in her report. But what shall we do? Shall we go back to the beginning? Shall we wait another year? Are we going to concern ourselves with strengthening legal safeguards as much as possible while terrorists move freely from one continent to another and mercilessly murder thousands of people, who – incidentally – have not been given any right to defend themselves? Let us be realistic. Let us accept this new legal framework for cooperation with the United States despite all our reservations. Let us subject it to a test period and, if necessary, revise it later. The general public, who are horrified by all this violence, would not understand any other option at this time. The negotiations held between the Community authorities and the United States authorities have led to agreements, the importance of which I believe must not be underestimated: we have managed to reduce the data that will be forwarded, to restrict the purposes for which they will be collected, to restrict the time for which they will be stored and to ensure that our citizens have mechanisms allowing them to correct that data and lodge complaints in the event that these are used improperly. Furthermore, following a period of three and a half years, the agreement could be revised in the light of the results achieved. In saying this, I am not implying that the agreement reached is ideal in every way, but that it is satisfactory in some respects. Furthermore – as I have said – circumstances have changed and have done so in a tragic way. The European Union – and this was demonstrated by the European Council, which has just been held – has fully and firmly declared war on terrorism. Effective action in this regard requires cooperation and coordination to be promoted within the European Union, between the police and judicial authorities of the Member States and between the bodies which the European Union has created for this purpose – of which I would highlight Europol and Eurojust – but also through cooperation with third countries, and there is absolutely no doubt that we share with the United States the common objective and firm intention of beating the scourge of terrorism. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the agreement we are debating today and which has been the subject of an excessively critical report by the rapporteur, strikes a reasonable balance between implementing much-needed security measures and safeguarding civil rights. The agreement also provides citizens with a level of protection and legal certainty that we would lose if we decided to refer the Decision back to the Commission, leading to a further period in which there would be a legal vacuum. –  Mr President, the presidency of the Bureau has acted quite correctly in supporting a Member State with regard to the erroneous and unjust attitude of Morocco – a privileged partner of the European Union, as has just been made clear – in the light of action that is unacceptable from a legal and political standpoint. It is scandalous that a Basque MEP such as Mr Ortuondo Larrea should be more concerned about goats on Perejil Island than about the situation of ETA victims, with regard to whom he has never shown concern or tabled a single question in this Chamber. Nor has he done so with regard to the fight against terrorism. His absence from the debate we have just held reveals his true colours, and discredits anyone who has the nerve to ask this question and to say what we in this Chamber have had to hear. Does the Council not think that, for the reasons I have given, this question is meaningless? . – Mr President, firstly, I would like to express my thanks to the political groups in this House who have supported the report of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and who have enriched it through their participation in the intense debates which we have held. Furthermore, I also wish to recognise the positive and cooperative attitude of the Commission to whom, Commissioner, I would like to express my personal thanks. The action plans for the six countries selected by the High Level Working Group on asylum and migration represent, and this seems to me to be important, the first external action of the European Union in the field of immigration and asylum, and as Commissioner Vitorino correctly said in Strasbourg, they are priority objectives for the Member States and I hope they continue to be so. My report, Mr President, on the one hand reflects the critical feeling of all the groups with regard to aspects of form and substance in the presentation and preparation of the plans. We have not been able to examine each one of them individually and we have had to limit ourselves to very general considerations and, on this basis, make proposals which I hope will be taken into account by the Commission and the Council for these and for future action plans. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the very fact that these action plans are to be implemented is positive in itself. It is also positive that we have combined action plans in the fields of foreign policy, cooperation and development and in adopting measures to regulate migratory flows. However, what has not been positive is the way that the Council has presented these plans to Parliament, which has remained silent on the way in which they have been selected and drafted. Our basic concern relates to the possible effectiveness of the actions planned for countries such as Afghanistan, Somalia or Iraq, where political instability is combined with constant violations of the most basic human rights. Quite different is the case of Morocco, or even Albania or Sri Lanka, where there is a greater likelihood of multi-sectoral cooperation, and there are countries with privileged situations such as Morocco, where we have just implemented an association agreement. In addition to the fact that it is impossible to comply with the time limit laid down for the majority of actions, there is also a lack of budgetary contribution for some of the measures envisaged, as more than 50% of them have no financial resources. That is why one of our proposals is to create a budget line for 2001 to cover these needs. I would also like to draw your attention to the imbalance between the measures to control migratory flows and those which promote genuine cooperation in the development of the countries selected, including measures for integration. We cannot criminalise immigration, whether it is for economic or political reasons. It should be understood that it is crucial to implement the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere Summit on the ‘communitisation’ of asylum policy and the fair and humanitarian treatment of refugees and immigrants. We should put emphasis on the humanitarian conditions in reception centres and also take advantage of the experience of some countries with regard to regional approximation. As well as economic immigration and cooperation with countries of origin, we should deal with the question of labour market legislation in the Member States themselves, the social integration of immigrants and the fight against the mafia-types involved in the trafficking in human beings. The problem cannot be resolved solely by means of readmission and border control agreements, although they are necessary. In terms of the action plans, these measures seem to be given priority over the ones I have just mentioned I also consider it necessary to create an immigration monitoring centre because, in addition to coordinating statistical data, this would allow sociological studies to be carried out on the phenomenon of migration, which would help in the decision-making process. With regard to respect for human rights, there must be greater cooperation in order to modernise the administrative structures of some of the selected countries. We must also cooperate in the training of police forces and, in particular, open them up to cooperation with the NGOs, which have a social role to play in this area. Finally, Mr President, I hope that, with regard to these plans and the plans to come, the defects highlighted in this resolution will be corrected and that there will be closer cooperation, especially on the part of the High Level Working Group and the Council, with Parliament. I also hope, of course, that the Commission will be given the resources to carry them out. The success or failure of the European Union’s first external action in an area as sensitive for European society as immigration and asylum, depends on the success of these plans. . Mr President, I believe there is no reason or justification not to vote on the report and the motion for a resolution. What has been voted for this morning is perfectly compatible with the content of the resolution, which calls for the suspension of the agreement. We must, therefore, issue our opinion on this. I believe that both the proposal and the motion for a resolution should be voted on and I would ask that this be done. –  Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that the initiative presented by the European Commission on 11 March last is the best response the European Union could give to some of the fears inspired by enlargement. This proposal is based on an overall view of the place of the new Europe in its surroundings, but from an individual viewpoint for each country, without affecting the European aspirations of these countries. That should be clear. This area of new neighbours should be built on compliance with shared values, which we must continue to establish. That way, the EU strategy with regard to the southern border, in terms of democratisation and human development, cannot be limited to the democratic clause. The United States are currently implementing a global strategy on this subject with increased budgetary resources and the European Union cannot lose sight of the overwhelming need to foster democratisation along its closest cultural and strategic border. This should take place gradually and realistically, but with strict requirements. The European Union should provide what our Mediterranean partners are always asking for: an area of shared prosperity. This, however, should also be an area of shared responsibility, above all with regard to the subject of immigration, which is of particular concern to this House. In order to accomplish this, the Commission’s proposals on the free movement of persons should be studied carefully and debated in depth, and Parliament must be heard. The global and regional strategy represented by this initiative for new neighbours must act as a spur for regional integration and strengthen cross-border cooperation between the southern and eastern Mediterranean countries, which is currently almost non-existent. It must also break down, once and for all, the walls that make many borders between Mediterranean countries impenetrable. The initiative we are discussing today must be credible and offer tangible results. This will require sufficient budgetary resources and certain proposals will need to be reviewed, such as the Euro-Mediterranean Development Bank. Lastly, we must also explore the possibility of a ‘conference of neighbours’ involving the Heads of State and Government of these countries to address matters of common interest, including the Middle East, in the presence of the two parties and two members of the Quartet. . Mr President, I am indeed aware of the letter which Mr Barón Crespo sent to the President's office concerning his unfortunate and malicious statements of yesterday, and confirming them in exactly the same terms as in his speech. On the other hand, Mr President, and according to the explanations given by the secretariat of my committee, and of which the Presidency is directly aware from the note which was sent to it, it is absolutely clear that all, absolutely all, the documents were available in the Committee on Freedoms at the start of the day on the 20th. Documents which, moreover, are public and which, besides being available in the documentation department, are also available on the Internet. Therefore, Mr President, I would emphasise that no political group – including the Group of the Party of European Socialists – nor any member of the Committee on Freedoms made any comment or statement on the matter, neither during the course of voting on the amendments nor at the start of the same. Furthermore, Mr President, at the end of the sitting I was congratulated by all the political groups for the way in which the work had been carried out. In conclusion, Mr President, and in Spanish, Mr Barón Crespo has lied, manipulated the truth and insulted us, in addition to casting doubt on the good name of the Members of this House, of the officials and also the assistants of the political groups. – Mr President, the Treaty of Amsterdam has set an important objective for the Union. This is a task which all MEPs, the Council and the Commission must take on during this legislature: the creation, as has been said already, of an area of freedom, security and justice. The Tampere Council, the motor and architect of this objective, has proposed certain goals, but five years, the time scale laid down for the implementation of Chapter IV of the Treaty, is too long to wait for the urgent solution which some problems require. My first point is that Parliament must not be excluded from the important decisions to be taken in this area and that its participation in the decision-making process must be guaranteed, especially with regard to this project which affects the citizens, as the Commissioner has explained very well. My second point is that we must make rapid progress in the adoption of a common asylum system, adopting common procedural rules and, above all, putting an end to the current confusion between migration for political reasons and migration for economic reasons. The recent laws on aliens adopted in my country, Spain, and in Belgium, are a reminder that there is an urgent need for the communitisation of immigration policy. My third and final point relates to the external activities of the Union in the field of immigration and asylum. We must not and cannot give the impression that the Union exclusively wishes to defend itself from an avalanche of refugees and economic migrants. We must opt for a policy of cooperating in the development of our neighbouring countries in the East and the Mediterranean area, but we must do so with rigour, with economic means and in close collaboration with public institutions, which must cooperate in the protection of those citizens whose most basic rights are violated or who wish to emigrate in order to meet their most essential needs. Finally, in relation to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the citizens of Europe need to have a vision of citizenship. The Euro, employment, even security, are not enough. They need a ‘European soul’, as a distinguished Spanish professor once said. – Thank you, Mr President. The reason that I am speaking is purely to support and highlight, if possible, essential elements expressed by the rapporteur of this report, our colleague Charlotte Cederschiöld, whom I congratulate for her rigorous and excellent work. I would like to start by pointing out what a revolution it is going to be when the euro appears on 1 January of next year. The euro is going to be the ultimate symbol of European identity, and along with the yen and the dollar it will be one of the guiding currencies that will be used not only in Europe but also, as our colleague said, on a global scale. It will be the cornerstone on which to build a political union. Despite all this, as the euro takes the form of a note or coin, there is obviously the very real risk that there will be attempts to counterfeit it, and as a result, prevention policies are essential. With this objective in mind, we need to work thoroughly on the need to train those who will be working daily with the currency, through courses and other measures, especially banks and bureaux de change, so that they are familiarised with the euro. They are going to be the key players in detecting counterfeit currency. Therefore, and given that the legislative proposals that we are examining today aim to regulate this matter, it is essential both that we have an effective system of police and customs cooperation and that we establish a global information system that includes identifying counterfeit notes, collecting them and sending them to centres that study the method of counterfeiting, the paper used, the ink, the amount counterfeited, etc. Finally, I would also like to emphasise the importance of effective criminal protection in order to remove any trace of counterfeiting. As I do not wish to dwell on fundamental issues that have already been discussed by Mrs Cederschiöld, such as the inconvenience and confusion caused by having legal instruments that are dependent on different pillars in order to defend the same objective, which is combating the counterfeiting of the euro- I am going to focus on two or three matters that I feel are important. One is the reference made by Amendment No 23, unlike the Regulation, which does not allude to it at all, to a counterfeit currency database. I think that this is something that would increase the efficiency and accuracy of the battle against counterfeiting. With regard to the status of the European Technical and Scientific Centre, which as established in Article 5 of the proposal for a regulation, will channel the fight against the counterfeiting of coins, I would like to stress the need to protect its independence from the Paris Mint from the start, as set out in Amendments Nos 20 and 26. The functional link of this body should be solely with the European institutions and under no circumstances with a national institution. Finally, Amendment No 27 adds to the original text of the Regulation the idea that I expressed at the start of my speech, which is the key role that those who work with money should play in the battle against counterfeiting of the euro. It is important that they be obliged not only to withdraw from circulation any notes and coins whose authenticity is questionable, but also to check for authenticity themselves. We are, of course, aware of the suspicions that this requirement could give rise to, as it would require considerable investment in tools, machines and items to ensure that the money is legal, but it is essential from the point of view of protecting citizens. It is also a guarantee that the money distributed by these bodies will be authentic. –  Mr President, the tender fruit negotiation will be opened up in three days’ time, and we will then know if it is ripe or green, or sufficiently ripe for us all to feel calm and for both the parties concerned, the European Union and Morocco, to start sounding out methods of cooperation and agreements in a manner that is flexible, Commissioner, but also serious and rigorous, so that the Community fishing fleet may recommence its activities in those waters. As a Spanish and Andalusian MEP, I assert the rights of thousands of Andalusian and Spanish families to maintain and defend their jobs, which have been endangered for almost a year, and for us also to defend these jobs here in Parliament. But I would also like to appeal to the intelligence of the Kingdom of Morocco, which time and again has knocked on the door of the European Union and this Parliament in search of understanding and assistance in resolving its economic, social and political problems, of flexible cooperation and, I emphasise, also seriously, of arriving at an agreement that satisfies both parties. Commissioner, agriculture, immigration – a field with regard to which we approved a new budgetary line yesterday for assistance to Morocco –, industry and the economy form part of the set of mutual relations between Morocco and the European Union. It would be senseless to exclude fisheries from this and, precisely, the association agreement that links us to Morocco consists of not excluding any aspect that affects our interests, as the alternative would be to dull the impetus with which the European Union wants to, and can, promote the wholesale development of this country. This is the clear message which should also be sent to the Moroccans. – Mr President, at this point in the debate, I believe that nothing new nor original can be added but, as a member of the Committee on Fisheries and representative of the citizens and interests of Spain and Andalusia, I would like to make two brief points. The first is that thousands of Andalusian and Spanish families are looking to us. They hope to see evidence that, for the European Commission and especially the Council, the priority and the most urgent matter at the moment is to come to a sound agreement with Morocco. It is difficult, Commissioner, as you have just said, but it is not impossible. Employment is a priority objective of the European Union and it is not enough just to create it. We also have to prevent its destruction. Andalusia, my region, has the highest rate of unemployment in the Union and almost 50% of the boats which fish in Moroccan waters are Andalusian. The second is that Morocco is a priority country within the framework of Euro-Mediterranean relations. Morocco and the European Union have a mutual interest and need, and intransigent positions and insults are the enemies of cooperation and understanding. Parliament can and must help with this understanding insofar as we are the legitimate representatives of the citizens of Europe, who at the moment are naturally expectant and concerned with regard to the results of the future negotiations. Neither is it good for the negotiation climate that, through an absurd desire for the limelight, spectacles should be made such as the one this morning with the resolution which various political groups have presented. It does no favours for the workers in the fishing industry and their families if certain politicians are after a photo and a headline in a newspaper or, as they say in my region, want to confuse wheat with chaff. I believe that there is no place in this debate for the Sahara question. The Commission, the Council and Parliament must act together, in a coordinated and transparent fashion. Nothing would offer as much advantage to the other side as a lack of unity amongst ourselves and contradictory debates on a matter which is so vital to our interests and also for Morocco itself. –  Mr President, when a question is asked seriously accusing the Spanish Government of inertia in relation to the death of immigrants in the Straits of Gibraltar, it shows the inanity and irresponsibility of those who use a tragedy to try to discredit their own Government in this House. You see, the Spanish Government, through the Civil Guard, has intercepted 133 leisure craft and 2 300 dinghies in five years, resulting in 203 immigrants dead, over 200 missing and 377 rescued, and I underline rescued, all coming from Morocco. The Spanish Government, through the Civil Guard, has implemented an information system to prevent shipwrecks in the Straits, at a cost of 13 600 million pesetas, for which Spain has requested European Union funding. The Spanish Government has pushed forward the Action Plan on Morocco, as mentioned by the Council representative, which this Parliament approved with a budget line of EUR 10 million. I was the rapporteur for that plan. Now, Mr President, comes my question: when will the Council submit a progress report on the action plan for Morocco to which he has referred? . Mr President, I would repeat what I said before: there is nothing incompatible about, on the one hand, our having voted as we did this morning in relation to the preliminary ruling of the Court of Justice and, on the other, having to give our opinion on the legislative proposal and the resolution. I will repeat: it is the resolution that calls for the agreement to be suspended. We therefore have this legitimate right in this House and the political groups would be deprived of it if we were prevented from voting on the proposal and the resolution. I would therefore insist once again, Mr President, that this report must not be referred back to committee, but that it should be voted on as planned, for the reasons I have just given, which I believe to be conclusive. – Mr President, the protection of fundamental rights is undoubtedly one of the driving forces of the current evolution of the European Union. Therefore the proclamation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, in December 2000, was an unprecedented event in terms of the recognition of a Union which is increasingly close to the citizens and sensitive to their needs. The European Parliament, an institution which is particularly sensitive to the issue of protecting our citizens, had no hesitation in making it the key element of its annual report on respect for fundamental rights in the Union, the aim of which is to assess the degree of compliance with the rights contained in the Charter in any particular year. In this context, I believe that this annual resolution is a wonderful opportunity for the European Parliament to demonstrate its interest in safeguarding fundamental rights, as well as controlling their application, especially with the invaluable support of the network of experts which the Commissioner referred to and whose work I had the honour of inaugurating together with him. Furthermore, so that we are not hindered in this task, I believe it essential that the European Parliament tries to achieve the greatest possible degree of consensus, seeking to bring together the positions of the political groups and thereby becoming a genuine institution for controlling compliance with the fundamental rights of the Union. Nevertheless, I must unfortunately acknowledge that this has not been the situation, quite the opposite. Opting to include party-oriented versions on issues such as the family or the treatment foreigners must receive within European territory simply overshadow the other extremely important issues referred to in the text, such as the fight against terrorism or against torture. In fact, the report which we are to vote on in the plenary goes much further than its own objective and diverts attention from the important thing – assessing whether or not rights have been respected – towards party political issues, which consists of adopting positions on certain issues which are still under discussion within the framework of other reports and which also reflect positions which are different from that which the government of the colour of the rapporteur maintains in the Council. I must therefore unfortunately say that my group will be obliged to vote against the report, since it is impossible to support a text which is not suited to its purpose or the continuity set by its predecessors. . –  Mr President, on 27 May 2002, the Council adopted Regulation (EEC) 881/2002 in the aim of transposing a series of United Nations Security Council resolutions. In practical terms this dealt with two resolutions establishing actions, principally the freezing of funds and other economic resources, applicable to the persons and bodies included on the list created by the United Nations Sanctions Committee specifically for this purpose. The European Parliament delivered its opinion on 11 April 2002, under an emergency procedure, and adopted the Resolution with 14 amendments. Last December, the United Nations Security Council adopted another Resolution, No 1454 of 2002, recognising certain exceptions to the obligation to freeze funds and economic assets. On this basis, the European Commission submitted the proposal before us today, which echoes, almost word for word, the United Nations text. This proposal, therefore, concerns authorising the release of funds for the individuals included on the list, in order to cover basic human needs, such as expenses related to food, medical treatment, legal fees, rent, etc. as the Parliament European itself called for in the Resolution of 11 April 2002, to which I have already referred. On that occasion, however, the plenary of the European Parliament also tabled other amendments that were not included by the Council in Regulation (EEC) 881/2002, or by the Commission in its current proposal. For this reason, the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs voted for a range of amendments that are adopted in the report before us today, which I propose we endorse in its entirety. There are five amendments, which seek the express inclusion in the Community Regulation of the procedure for deleting the names of individuals from the list of terrorists currently in force in the United Nations, to ensure that the European Parliament is fully involved and informed, and to deal with the need for the lifespan of this Regulation to be in line with the period of validity of the United Nations resolutions it is transposing. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, having touched briefly on a specific issue, that we today have the task of debating, I wish to take the last few minutes of the speaking time I have left to make a more general observation on the reasons that have led to our having to adopt this type of international and European law. The reason is nothing less than the persistence of terrorism. Indeed, over the last year and a half in particular, bloody terrorist brutality has shaken the entire world. Focusing on the fight against terrorism in the European Union, I wish to highlight one aspect that I believe is relevant. If we do indeed all agree that we wish to create an area of freedom, security and justice, we must work to ensure that its three components work fully and with equal intensity throughout the territory of the European Union. Nevertheless, there is no point in talking about a European area of this nature if, in practice, not all of the European territory is fair, safe and free. The main cause of this is the persistence of terrorism in the European Union. This is not something alien to our borders but something that persists within these very borders. To this end, the competent European authorities have started working on adopting an entire legislative arsenal to combat the terrorist scourge. Although all actions to achieve this end can be questioned and, of course, evaluated; I also wish to condemn those voices that have been raised, which are much more concerned about safeguarding the rights and freedoms of terrorists than with remembering the harm, the suffering and the despair that these people inflict on their victims, not to mention the sense of injustice and impotence engendered by such acts. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I fervently hope in future to see practical approaches to the rights and freedoms of the victims of terrorism and their families. In this context, and taking advantage of the Commission’s presence amongst us today – I see that the Council is not present – I shall take the opportunity to suggest the idea that is already beginning to be talked of in the corridors and to which I hope we will soon have an answer; I am referring to studying the possibilities of creating a mechanism for solidarity at European level that provides formulas for compensating European citizens who have been the victims of terrorist attacks on EU territory. – Mr President, the illegal trafficking in human beings has become one of the most horrendous crimes that we see and it must be tracked down and eradicated through the law and through international cooperation. The European Union governments committed themselves to this in the Tampere conclusions and it also requires the necessary cooperation of the countries of origin and especially operators involved in the transport of passengers. The problem is how to harmonise the various legislation of the Member States and to seek formulas for approximation. There is no doubt that transporters have to take on the obligation to verify whether foreign nationals meet entrance requirements. The formula proposed by the present initiative to establish a minimum fine of no less than EUR 5 000 per person transported does not seem unreasonable. We should also, however, impose the confiscation of vehicles used by transporters, not merely as a possibility but as a mandatory penalty. It also seems necessary to ensure that the transportation of people who may be eligible, under the Geneva Convention, to apply for asylum, should not be punishable. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in summary, the Union’s governments should make the greatest possible efforts so that transporters, border police and customs police fulfil their obligations in a duly coordinated fashion, and prevent mafia networks from trafficking in human beings. This is not the only way to combat illegal human trafficking. We must share responsibility for this serious problem which the whole of European society is obliged to confront. It is therefore urgent, ladies and gentlemen, that this initiative, which we have been discussing for several months, should become reality as soon as possible. – Madam President, we find ourselves, in this legislature, with a momentous challenge with regard to the construction of the European Union. During the previous legislature, this Parliament said “yes” to Monetary Union, “yes”to social integration, making employment the centrepiece and the motor of European social policy, and now we must also say “yes”to a European area of freedom, security and justice. The European Council of Tampere, which is the result of the initiative – it must be said – and the efforts of the President of the Spanish Government, José María Aznar, must confront this issue with the same political will that it displayed at the Extraordinary Summit in Luxembourg when it confronted the serious problem of unemployment. The phenomenon of migration is a challenge which we must face with courage, realism and a deep sense of humanity and understanding. Solidarity and integration must be the two fundamental cornerstones of our immigration policy. As has been said here, any solutions which are legal, economic, social or based on controlling the flow of migration, should be adopted according to a common approach, in accordance with a common policy. This is not a Spanish, German or Italian problem, but rather a European Union problem. To this end, the very concept of immigration should be defined at the next European Council meeting in Tampere. Immigration for political reasons is one thing and economic immigration is another, and the two things do not require the same solutions. Furthermore, we should define the concept of asylum which is very often confused with illegal immigration and the problems relating to the status of foreigners. We should also establish, as laid down in the Treaty of Amsterdam itself, a balanced effort amongst all the Member States to confront the consequences of accepting refugees, displaced persons and the powerful migratory pressure which is of an exclusively economic nature, such as that which originates from non-EU countries in the Mediterranean or the Southern flank of the Union. To this end, it is important that we analyse the political, geographical and economic circumstances of each crisis and each type of immigration. It would be neither reasonable nor efficient to distribute responsibilities in a uniform way, especially with regard to the distribution of displaced people. Finally, Madam President, social integration will be the shield, or protection, in the face of the racist or xenophobic attitudes which are currently appearing in some European countries I shall end, Madam President, by appealing to the countries from which the migratory flow originates. It is not enough for the European Union… – Mr President, given the way this morning’s debate is going, I wonder whether we are in a seminar, in a big lecture, or in a Parliament whose obligation is to legislate and to provide solutions to European society’s current problems. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very worrying that this Parliament has rejected Council initiatives such as the ones we are considering here and that this demonstrates great disarray in the legislative process which the Treaty obliges us to follow. Free movement, for example, is a fundamental aspect, which requires legislation that is crystal-clear to both the citizens of the European Union and to those from third countries. I agree with the reasoning that Mrs Frahm expresses in her report for rejecting the initiative and for expecting the Commission to fulfil the objectives proposed on the scoreboard, because we do need to consider all the scenarios in which nationals of third countries who are authorised to circulate within the territory of the Member States may find themselves in. It is also necessary, for the sake of this legal coherence, that the solutions proposed do not contradict the Treaties. The same can be said of Mr Nassauer’s report, in which he has expressed himself well and in which he rightly criticises the lack of legal rigour of the French Government’s initiatives on the mutual recognition of decisions regarding expulsion. We should truly be considering whether the European institutions are providing a rigorous response to European society’s current demand that we create a policy on immigration which respects the principles of freedom, equality and justice that go hand in hand with European culture. Immigration and everything relating to it requires a tripartite pact between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, which will impose some order on this debate. The majority groups in this House, as happens in our own countries, must reach a consensus on the great principles enshrined in Chapter IV of the Treaty and its legislative implementation. We must achieve joint consensus and consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the path of confrontation which we are taking will not help to reach a solution to the problem, but rather make it worse, which would have dangerous consequences for all of us. – Mr President, if, by means of this debate, we manage to focus the attention of the Council and the Commission on the importance of the Southern side of the Mediterranean to European policy, we will have partly achieved our aim. As has been said, a delegation from this Parliament has just visited Morocco and Tunisia. Human rights, the Western Sahara, fishing, agriculture, investment, MEDA and emigration were discussed by MEPs, the authorities and representatives of civil society. As a result, we have been asked to ensure that the Union has a greater political involvement in the Mediterranean. There are fears about enlargement and there is a feeling that the balance is more in favour of the north and the east and less in favour of the south. It would be good if the representatives of the Commission and the Council present here today could answer this question. On the other hand, we have to encourage investment in the region, and, respecting the idiosyncrasies of these countries we must cooperate with them so that they may make progress in their democratic processes and their respect for human rights. We must accept their pace but at the same time make it clear to them that the European Union does not only want to invest in economic development, but also in peace and stability, based on respect for peoples’ fundamental rights and on people being able to exercise their liberties in a democratic way. This is not an easy task, and only dialogue, and not confrontation, can achieve it. European Union actions are still very diffuse and complex in this area. The Barcelona Conference corresponds more to political will than to a genuine strategy aimed at creating a real Euro-Mediterranean area, where economics play an important part, but only one part, in a permanent dialogue and political cooperation in the social and cultural areas and also in the defence of mutual interests in order to guarantee the peace and stability which we all wish to see in this region. *** Mr President, I would simply like to tell the House that, in agreement with Mr Turco, there is a correction to the explanatory statement. Mr President, from the Barcelona process until today, the whole of the Mediterranean basin has been convulsed by a series of problems, which are not only unresolved, but which in some cases are getting worse in an alarming manner. From the Middle East conflict to the insoluble situation in the Sahara, from the total lack of control of immigration, with the almost daily tragedies on the coasts of Andalusia and the Canary Islands, to which we can add human trafficking, drug trafficking and fanatical terrorism, which is not only being endured by some of our neighbouring countries, but which is using all its resources to also transfer itself to our European territory, these are some of the serious issues which we should be concerned about, very concerned about, at the Naples conference. We have common problems and also mutual responsibilities and each party must take on those responsibilities. Immigration, for example, can only be resolved if, as called for in the Euro-Mediterranean Forum in Bari in June 2002, the countries of origin and receiving countries take on joint responsibility for controlling migratory flows and combating the organised mafias which promote illegal immigration. Border control is the task of both sides, not of just one. Development cooperation? Whatever is needed and more. But the political and administrative structures of the Mediterranean third countries must behave transparently, and must respect human rights in order to promote easy and productive parliamentary and political dialogue such as that which must take place in the new assembly we are discussing today, so that this cooperation is effective, something which is unfortunately not the case in some of those countries, and I will not mention them by name, Mr President. – Mr President, it revolts, disgusts and amazes me that the previous speaker has said what he has, after justifying and aiding murderers and enemies of freedom, democracy and Europe. Mr President, I am not going to waste a single second – which is what he wants – so that I can defend what we have to defend: freedom, democracy and the area of freedom, security and justice. They are the enemies of freedom, security and justice in Europe. This must be stated categorically. Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that the innovative aspect of what we are discussing here is that, at European Union level, we are providing protection for fundamental rights and for citizens’ rights. This protection, which is going to be enshrined in the new Treaty, is the fundamental condition for the success of the area of freedom, security and justice, and provides the foundation for the legitimisation of the Union. In fact, only by strengthening the protection of the rights and principles enshrined in the Rule of Law can we create the conditions for greater trust between the Member States and make it possible to produce genuinely common policies. Today, and following long delays, these policies are taking shape in the form of judicial, civil and criminal cooperation and are beginning to do so in the field of visas, asylum and immigration. In the field of judicial cooperation, the European arrest warrant has opened up the way to direct cooperation between judges and has broken down barriers so that, amongst others, terrorists and murderers cannot find refuge in European territory for their criminal and violent activities. Furthermore, we must not forget this Parliament’s constant appeals in favour of protection and support for the victims of terrorism. In the field of immigration and asylum, the progress made is not entirely satisfactory. Parliament will do everything it can to ensure that the time limits established at the Seville European Council are respected. Any further delay would not only show a lack of solidarity between the Member States, but would also be a bad sign at a time when the Union is preparing for an historic enlargement. How can we resolve amongst 25 something which we have not able to decide amongst 15? Finally, a comment on the pointless complexity of the decision-making system within the area of freedom, security and justice. Parliament reflected this situation, in which decisions were adapted within the first or the third pillar, in a resolution in 1999. Today we are glad to discover that these same arguments have found consensus within the Convention charged with reforming the Treaties. . Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the committee I chair. Mr Barón has made a statement, an accusation which I believe to be particularly serious. He has said that documents have disappeared in my committee. I would like to say to the Presidency that, if that accusation is false, it is extremely serious since it would seriously harm the prestige and honour of the committee I chair.  Secondly, Mr President, I would like an explanation of how Mr Barón has received that information, because I was not aware until today that this has happened, and that would also seriously harm the prestige of the services of my committee. I believe that this, Mr President, requires immediate clarification and, in any event, I would ask for the support of the Presidency. –  Mr President, how many minutes’ silence have we held so far in this Parliament for the victims of ETA and in condemning terrorism? How many people have lost their lives in attempting to tread on European soil along the Andalusian coastline, in Dover, or on the coasts of southern France or Italy? How many women and children have been and still are exploited by organised criminal networks that – and this is the worst part – act with impunity in European territory? We must begin to find answers to these questions now, and fast! The fight against organised crime, terrorism, drugs or the trafficking of human beings requires new police methods, a readjustment of legislation, and the immediate adaptation of police and judicial cooperation to the new European area. No terrorist, drug trafficker or trafficker in human beings must find shelter in a Member State. And it is urgent, as the Commissioner has said, to set the European search and capture order in motion against these enemies of freedom and security. I particularly wish to thank you, Commissioner, for the interest you have shown in setting this European search and capture order in motion. In Spain a recent survey has shown that terrorism and immigration have become two of the main concerns of Spanish citizens. These concerns also require European responses. We are going to have two great debates in the coming months: a report on terrorism and another on immigration and asylum. I hope that we Members of Parliament, the Commission and the Council will rise to the occasion and succeed in offering European citizens and those who legally wish to live in our territory precisely what we set forth in the recent Charter of Fundamental Rights. – Mr President, I believe that if ever there was a time to congratulate a rapporteur and the Chairman of a temporary committee, this is it, since they have produced a report which has been produced against all the odds. The results of the work of the Temporary Committee on the ECHELON interception system, in my view, send the important political signal that the European institutions, and in particular the Commission, must take much more care over the security of their communications and that the Member States and the European Union must create a new legal framework to protect their citizens and to guarantee that the privacy of their communications is not jeopardised as a result of interception because those States have the technological means and potential to use it inappropriately. These days, electronic mail, mobile telephones, videoconferencing and the Internet have broken down the physical borders between countries across the world. And the most serious thing is that organised crime is using these means for their own advantage and even funding. This gives rise to a question: why not direct all this potential for intercepting communications which, as has been demonstrated, the countries making up the ECHELON system have at their disposal, to combat terrorists, drug traffickers or the organised mafias which traffic in human beings, instead of using it for an international competition between States which is unfair by any reckoning? All Member States of the European Union must dedicate all their efforts to defending the rights of their citizens, whether they be economic, social or political in nature, since anything less would represent a lack of compliance with the commitments laid down in the Treaties and, in particular, with the recent Charter of Fundamental Rights proclaimed at the Nice Summit by the fifteen Member States. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are dealing with the forwarding of PNR (Passenger Name Record) data to the United States, but this time in the final phase, since we now have the draft international agreement on the table, which we in this House have called for so many times. I do not believe we can contribute anything new to the fundamental issue, because our positions throughout all these debates have been made sufficiently clear. In the committee I chair, we have had the opportunity to hear the experts. Mr Bolkestein, the Commissioners involved and also the bodies directly affected, such as the air carriers, have appeared on repeated occasions. This is our final political pronouncement on the issue during this legislature. Like my group, I believe it would be irresponsible on our part to leave without resolving a blatant case of legal vacuum and legal uncertainty which arises every time that, when travelling to the United States, airlines transmit data on their passengers to the United States authorities, without any type of guarantee or legal basis to protect the treatment and use of that data. This has now been happening for a year. This is the legal framework we are debating today, with all its defects and the criticisms we have made. On the other hand, nobody can deny that combating terrorism is an absolute priority today and that at the moment, when European society, living in fear of those people who threaten their security and stability, would not understand the absence of cooperation between those countries which are facing up to terrorism. The European Union and the United States share this common objective and it is fundamental, and absolutely urgent and necessary, that we cooperate. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see this as giving the United States , as some would have us believe. It is the solution to a real problem which has affected us since transmissions began more than a year ago. Allow me, Mr President, also to take this opportunity to say that I hope the new Socialist government in Spain – led by Mr Zapatero – defends this agreement in the Council, because I am convinced that the Spanish citizens would prefer to give their personal data to those who need it for these purposes or can obtain it for security reasons, as the United States do, before the people responsible for the massacre on 11 March can carry out another brutal attack, whether it be in my country or in any part of the world. For all of these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we are going to vote against the report by Mrs Boogerd-Quaak. – Mr President, within this disordered debate on certain aspects of immigration, we are dealing with a proposal for a directive of great importance because it attempts to regulate the fair and coordinated efforts which the Member States are obliged – and I stress, obliged – to make to receive displaced people and refugees from third countries. Let us not lose sight of the fact that we are dealing with a humanitarian problem of the highest order. Nobody wants to abandon their land, their culture or their family. The first question is therefore how to understand and show solidarity, so that we can assist these people and make their terrible situation less burdensome. As well as immediately meeting their humanitarian needs, we also face the problem of where to place these refugees, as this debate is demonstrating. Is it a proper solution to distribute them numerically according to a system of quotas, thereby replacing the two-fold principle of respecting the will of the Member States and of the refugees themselves? I sincerely believe not. Would it not be fairer to use the European Fund for Refugees, as Spain proposed, and give it more financial resources than it has at the moment, in order to help the Member States receiving more refugees? I believe so. The problem is also that a great number of asylum requests are rejected because they do not come from genuine political refugees, but from economic immigrants. As is also being demonstrated here, we are facing a very confused debate in which there is no definition of the different types of economic immigration as opposed to those involving asylum for humanitarian or political reasons. The issue is to resolve the problems created by the current asylum procedure, and thereby make the number of asylum seekers much more reasonable and make the distribution of responsibilities fairer. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that those people who have committed criminal acts for supposedly political reasons have been excluded from temporary protection. This is a further step by the European Union in the fight against terrorism. The amendment presented in committee by the Spanish delegation of our group endorses a vote in favour of the report despite some of our reservations on certain aspects of it. – Mr President, the Tampere Council was a significant step forward for European construction. It pleases me as a Spaniard that it has given its backing to the impetus which the Spanish Prime Minister, José María Aznar, gave to this Summit. The European citizens are very concerned that freedom of movement should not be coupled with the free movement of those people who wish to use it to threaten their security. Terrorists, drug traffickers, traders in human beings and other criminals most not be allowed to move around within Europe unhindered by the police or the judiciary. It seems to me to be good news in the fight against terrorism, although the resolution of Parliament does not say so, that the formal extradition procedure for people who have been finally sentenced should be removed. It also seems to me that the Commission, in accordance with the new Tampere spirit and as the monitor of Community legislating, should ensure that directives to tackle money-laundering are complied with, given that non-compliance with these directives is hindering effective judicial cooperation as, for example, in the case of Gibraltar. Furthermore, the will expressed in the Council to tackle illegal immigration networks must come to fruition urgently as a result of decisive and effective police and judicial action. The Straits of Gibraltar and the Andalusian coasts are the silent witnesses of the tragic deaths of human beings. Not one death more, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Not one death more. The President-in-Office of the Council has also referred to the cooperation with countries of origin by means of action plans. I hope that, from now on, the Presidency of the Council will give this Parliament more explanations concerning the content of those plans. I ask you, Mr Lipponen, for more clarity and transparency in this area. We would like to know the timescales for action, the financial framework within which they will operate and the Commission’s responsibility with regard to these plans. And finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I cannot understand how the mandate will be extended in order to initiate other plans of action when the recently adopted ones have still not been implemented. – Mr President, more than two years ago, on the initiative of the Aznar Government, a new page was turned in Tampere with regard to European integration: to make a politically and judicially viable new common European area of freedom, security and justice, which would make the freedom and security of citizens compatible – and here is the great political debate – with the efficient functioning of, and access to, justice within this area. The events that have taken place over these last two years, such as the tragic deaths of Moroccan and sub-Saharan citizens in the Straits of Gibraltar and off the Andalusian coast, the death of immigrants in Dover or the recent incidents in Ireland, the repugnant traffic in, and corruption of, minors, and prostitution, combined with the horrific murders committed by ETA and the tragedy of 11 September, have caused an upheaval in the debate and have accelerated the need for the speedy implementation of measures to cope with such a dangerous and worrying situation. Ladies and Gentlemen, the work carried out by the Council, the Commission and Parliament in this field has its good and bad points. The good points include the fight against terrorism, where the important role which our President, Nicole Fontaine, has played in this area, as well as Commissioner Vitorino, deserve a special mention; the European arrest warrant and the definition of terrorism are the result of a difficult battle against terrorism that started in this House before 11 September. I would also like to stress what a good thing it has been to separate the debates on economic migration and asylum, which has helped us to clarify ideas, debates, and even approaches. However, in my opinion, there is still a long way to go. There are too many bad points and the most worrying of these in my opinion is the disorder caused by the hastiness and lack of agreement in the Council in areas such as the family reunification of immigrants, minimum standards on the asylum process, conditions for the reception of asylum seekers – to give but a few examples – where our work is sometimes ineffective due to the fact we have to chop and change what is carried out by the Council, which shows that the method with which we have to work is not ideal by any means and needs to be amended. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the current five-year term is drawing to a close. As provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam and at the important Tampere Summit for the adoption of measures aimed at the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, a progress review is now due. In my capacity as Chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, I should like to provide an overview of what has been achieved so far, and share with you some thoughts for the future and on how to rise to this ongoing challenge. In general, I feel it is important not to convey a negative impression of progress to date. A good deal has been achieved, despite the fact that much of the progress was due solely to crises such as that of 11 September. It is disappointing too that in the specific area of asylum and immigration it has as yet proved impossible for us to come up with satisfactory solutions. The sovereignty of Member States is directly affected by all measures related to the development of the area of freedom, security and justice. There is therefore a sense in which misgivings and difficulties are understandable. Further to the progress made and in order to sustain it, I propose drawing up a second Tampere programme. The Commissioner’s statement suggests this could be feasible. In addition the House appears to be favourably inclined towards the idea. As I see it, such a programme should be driven by legitimacy, efficiency and solidarity. I shall refer first to the legitimacy of actions taken. In my view, actions must be based solely on the protection and guarantee of the citizens’ rights and freedoms. Parliament therefore has a crucial role to play in this regard. I am inclined to doubt whether these principles really have been the driving force behind all the measures adopted so far. Rather the opposite appears to have been the case. We seem instead to have witnessed an exercise in the protection of the national interests of Member States. Parliament has often been sidelined. On occasion, documents the House needed to take a decision on actually arrived late. I am sorry to say that a long hard look at reality will show my misgivings are justified. For instance, I could point to the minor role played by Parliament in key areas such as the agreement on judicial cooperation with the United States. The programme to combat terrorism and organised crime is another relevant example. In this case, failure to consult Parliament is evidence of lack of transparency in decision-making. The only body that genuinely represents the people of Europe was sidelined. Nonetheless, it is only fair to point out that there is one issue on which Parliament, the Commission and the Council have shown great determination and consensus. I refer to the fight against terrorism. Mr President, I should like to make a further proposal. A day should be set aside to honour the victims of terrorism. 11 September could be an appropriate date for such an international day of remembrance. This is the only way of recognising those who have suffered most from this dreadful scourge. Sadly, terrorist incidents are becoming increasingly common. They represent an attack on the most basic of all human rights, namely the right to life and physical integrity. I trust my suggestion will be taken up. Secondly, careful consideration should be given to the effectiveness of the measures adopted. Clearly, the current decision-making process has resulted in a somewhat schizophrenic situation. Allow me to mention a few examples. Member States launch initiatives that are never carried through and overlap with each other. Processes grind to a halt in Council because of the requirement for unanimity. This is the case for the development of regulations for the asylum process. Most serious of all are the unacceptable delays in transposing Community regulations into the legislation of Member States. The European arrest warrant is a prime example. Hence the importance of the changes contained in the draft European Constitution, aimed at avoiding such situations in the future. Lastly, I would like to refer to solidarity. At present, this is particularly conspicuous by its absence across the majority of Member States. It is abundantly clear that governments are more concerned about internal public opinion or their national budgets than about achieving European objectives. I have no doubt that this is what actually happens in Councils of Ministers when it comes to tackling the serious problems resulting from the proliferation of requests for asylum. The same is true of the problems posed by uncontrolled and sporadic economic migration. Several Member States are having to cope with the tragic consequences of these phenomena. The worst thing about this strategy is that it takes no account of the real state of affairs. In an area of freedom, security and justice, internal borders no longer exist. There can be no point in doggedly defending strictly national positions against other Member States when the effects of policies adopted by certain countries have a direct impact on the remainder. Europe is a common venture. The area under debate is a common venture. We are called on to move forward together. Only then will we reap the benefits together. –  Mr President, as the last speaker, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for having remained present in the Chamber for the entire debate. In this speech, which will be brief, I should also like, first of all, to express my personal satisfaction at the presence in the Chamber today of the President of the Spanish government, José María Aznar, who, long before the events of 11 September had already made the defence of freedom and the fight against those who seek to curb it, such as terrorist murderers, one of the of his political approach. The results of this political action at European level could not be more heartening. Secondly, the Union’s immigration policy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, requires your drive and your sensitivity towards such a burning issue, which is, I note, one of the Presidency’s objectives. I refer, for example, to the undeniable need to give a boost to Community legislation regulating aspects as important as family reunification, asylum procedure, or reception conditions for asylum seekers, in order to achieve a proper organisation of migratory flows, which effectively combats people trafficking in human need and who are responsible for the tragic deaths that are taking place in some parts of European territory, such as the Andalusian and other Spanish coastlines. . – Mr President, in view of the competences of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, which it is my honour to chair, I would like to stress three or four key aspects of this unprecedented event we are debating today. Firstly, it is important to expand the debate on the European Union’s borders, which has recently been launched. There is absolutely no doubt that successive enlargements lead us to the question: how far? What are the Union’s limits? Knowing where the Union’s borders are is the key if we are to talk about a European identity. Furthermore, it will determine the Union’s future action, in accordance with the possibilities offered by its new shape in terms of expanding the process of integration. My second point is that enlargement is a challenge in terms of the monitoring and control of external borders. In the new area of freedom we are building, it is clear that the decisions of one Member State have repercussions for the others, given the disappearance of internal controls. It is therefore important to help the new Member States to take responsibility for this difficult and costly task, which is a clear example of the organisation of migratory flows. Furthermore, we must reassess the cooperative relations with the new States which will become the Union’s border States. Thirdly, enlargement is a challenge in terms of combating different forms of organised crime, such as terrorism, human trafficking or drug trafficking. It is therefore important to promote intense police and judicial cooperation, the exchange of best practices and the compatibility of legal systems. This will allow the Member States to quickly acquire the levels of guarantee currently enjoyed in all the Member States. Finally, I would like to make a special appeal for the active participation of the ten candidate countries in the work on the Convention on the Future of Europe. It is clear that the Convention is planning the form Europe will take in the twenty-first century and it is therefore essential that not just the current Member States but also the future ones, which will represent almost half of the new Union, feel they are co-authors of that Convention. To sum up, in order to achieve the objective and for enlargement to be successful we must fulfil other objectives which are no less important, such as promoting stability and security, involving all the Member States in its shaping and in the respect for Fundamental Rights laid down in the Charter, and explain European construction to the citizens. In summary, to lay the foundations for a European identity which is constantly evolving, whose lowest common denominator is essential for the consistency and endurance of what we have been advocating for more than fifty years. () . Mr President, I have said nothing about a challenge, and nor am I talking about packages, I am talking about a serious accusation by Mr Barón, which damages the prestige of this House. In any event, Mr President, if it is true – and I would now ask for an immediate investigation – the votes taken in committee are null and void and we cannot, therefore, vote on this report tomorrow. –  Mr President, the debate on my report on the European Union’s action plans on asylum-seekers and migrants has been postponed until this evening at 6 p.m., and the vote until tomorrow at 9 a.m. I would like to see the importance of the issue reflected in the debate and vote in this House. So I would ask you to put it to the House that the debate be deferred to the next part-session in Brussels. . – Mr President, on behalf of the committee, I have asked that the vote on the resolution be postponed until the second part-session of March in Brussels. Since this is a complex and delicate issue, we are going to hold a debate in committee this afternoon, in an extraordinary meeting, and on Wednesday we will hold another, as a result of the Commission’s statement. I believe, since we are dealing with an issue which, as I have said, is delicate and on which we have to act prudently, it is better to transfer the vote on the resolution to this month’s part-session in Brussels, with the presentation, of course, of the corresponding amendments by the political groups. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the information you have provided, but unfortunately I do not think you have responded to the oral question tabled by my group. It remains outstanding. Clearly the agreement before us is especially relevant for both the European Union and the United States. The United States has decided to foster closer cooperation, especially in relation to the fight against organised crime. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as rapporteur I therefore feel we must welcome this type of initiative. I am especially pleased that for the first time the European Union is going to sign an agreement on cooperation on judicial and criminal matters. This should serve as a model in arriving at similar agreements with other third countries. I would however like to provide some additional details on three issues. Will this agreement make the fight against organised crime more effective? As I understand it, it will. This level of cooperation will clearly help the fight against money laundering, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking and terrorism. Will this agreement reinforce the European Judicial Area? I think it will inasmuch as it will oblige Member States and candidate countries to speed up the ratification of the European texts that form the basis of this agreement. These texts include the protocol on money laundering and the decision on the detention and surrender procedure and on joint investigation teams. The third question is whether these texts represent added value over and above the bilateral agreements currently in force. I have to say that the answer to this question is also affirmative. As regards existing agreements, the new agreement will streamline cooperation and provide for increased guarantees to be given in the interests of those accused. Nevertheless, I feel I must draw the attention of the Presidency of the Council to the doubts expressed by Parliament, as reflected in the question that led to this statement. Firstly, we want to be sure that the same guarantees offered by the European arrest warrant would apply in the case of the United States issuing a request for extradition. The second issue concerns the doubts over whether a Member State has the capacity to decide if a person should be sent to the United States or referred to the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. Although there is an explanatory note on this in the text of the agreement on the International Criminal Court, as you mentioned, we believe it would have been much clearer if this reference had been inserted into the text of the agreement. This would have eliminated the uncertainty on the subject and made it quite clear that a Member State may take that decision. The third issue relates to procedure. I would like to highlight a positive and also a negative aspect of this subject. Firstly, we would like to thank the Greek Presidency for publishing the text of this international agreement before it had even been signed. This allowed Parliament to consider its contents. An important precedent has been set. Nonetheless, this cannot be deemed adequate in terms of democratic control. I will move on to outline the negative aspect. To date, the European Parliament has never been consulted on any similar international agreements, even when they concerned fundamental aspects of foreign policy and cooperation on judicial matters. In our opinion this is unacceptable. Furthermore, unfortunately agreements of this type do not have to be ratified either by national parliaments or by this House. When neither the European Parliament nor national parliaments are involved, how can we say that the European Union’s actions in this regard are in line with the democratic principles on which it is based under Article 6 of the EU Treaty? This is why it is appropriate for the European Parliament to be consulted and not merely informed, as you have said. We feel this is a central and highly relevant issue. I communicated this to the Presidency of the Council in a letter sent in December last year. I could not understand why I did not receive a reply. I also made the current President-in-Office of the Council aware of the strength of feeling when the latter appeared before meetings of the committee I chair. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the liberties and fundamental interests of the citizen’s of Europe are at stake. We are dealing with judicial and criminal cooperation, a subject on which the Treaty provides for a closer level of cooperation than that provided for by the Common Foreign and Security Policy. I would therefore like you to reconsider your position should no consultation be allowed for. I also call upon you to convey Parliament’s opinion on this matter to the Council. I have communicated this opinion to you in the strongest terms. If our message is not brought before the Council, Parliament would have to consider the possibility of taking its case to the Court of Justice. Lastly, I would like to thank the Presidency once again for the positive attitude it has shown in relation to such a sensitive dossier, as demonstrated by your presence in the House. – Mr President, Basque citizens should take note of the fact that Mr Ortuondo cares more for ETA prisoners than for the victims of terrorism. Mr President, Commissioner, we are dealing with the new annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union which, owing to the method used for its production – a different political group every year – makes it impossible for the final result to reflect a consensus – which furthermore is necessary – of all the groups in this House. This would be my first critical comment with a view to future reports. Mr Sylla – whom I respect and whom I thank personally – has made considerable efforts to ensure that the European Union’s anti-terrorist policy is well-considered and supported by this Parliament. I would like to expressly state, however – and in this regard I do disagree with his explanatory statement – that it is only the victims of terrorism who really suffer torture and all types of suffering, and not the ETA terrorists, who use the strategy of accusations of torture to try to weaken the rule of law. This is why in paragraph 12 we called for a European instrument for compensating victims which, let us hope, will be reflected in the 2004 budgets. Nevertheless, there are other issues which prevent an entirely positive assessment of it. One of them is its proposal on active euthanasia, which clashes head-on with a decision of the European Council of 26 March 2002, or the chapter relating to immigration and asylum, which confuses economic immigration with asylum seekers – an issue which has already been overcome by the Commission and also within our Parliamentary debate – or the request for equivalence between marriage and homosexual partnerships, and it also proposes that homosexual partnerships be allowed to adopt children, something which goes further than the logical non-discrimination against any person on the grounds of their sexual orientation. We can also talk about the proposal that resident third-country nationals who have been in European territory for more than three years should participate in municipal and even European elections, which would mean removing the link between European citizenship and nationality, thereby depriving it of any content. Something else which I consider to be a serious error is the very negative reference made to cooperation with the United States on an issue which, apart from anything else, does not correspond to the year dealt with by the report, that of the communication of passenger data to the United States authorities, which is currently at the negotiation stage and subject to open debate in this Parliament. – Mr President, a few weeks before the Convention began its work, when Mr Klaus Hänsch and I visited the President of the Convention in his house in Paris, after we had left that meeting I noted in my diary, ‘We will be successful if we manage to create the spirit of the Convention’. What did we understand by ‘the spirit of the Convention’? We meant ensuring that the members of the Convention were aware of the historic importance of the moment, of the difficulty of the challenge and of the will to rethink Europe in accordance with what was best for the citizens in the new Europe following the great enlargement.  I believe that in the creation of that Convention spirit, which has been the key to this success, you have played a leading role, Mr President. I believe that the applause following your speech today demonstrates that this Parliament has appreciated your work at the head of this Convention. Why in this task of rethinking Europe was it so necessary to convince ourselves of its difficulty? I believe that what we have carried out is an exercise in realising those slogans which this European Parliament has had since the 1990s: more democracy, more efficiency and more transparency. I believe that this Constitution is more democratic, more efficient and more transparent. It creates a Europe which is also imbued with these ideas. Why? Because we have modified the institutional system. It is true that we have done so, but we have done so precisely in order to provide the European Union with greater democracy.  We only have to remember and compare the model of the ECSC Treaty; we only have to remember what that assembly was, that predecessor of this Parliament in the ECSC Treaty. Today this Parliament, with this Constitution, is a fully democratic Parliament, fully integrated into the decision-making process. But we have also managed to integrate the national Parliaments into this decision-making process. And we have also ensured that the citizens can activate popular initiative when the law so establishes. This idea of more democracy is reflected in the Constitution. Also the idea of more efficiency – and that is why we have modified the institutional system. We have modified it profoundly. I believe we have always borne in mind the idea of safeguarding the necessary balance between the institutions, that that has been the fundamental premise of all our work. The truth is that only time will tell whether we have achieved that or not. But I believe that, in the modifications we have introduced, the idea of preserving the balance was absolutely essential. Our work has ended. Now we have the Intergovernmental Conference. I believe that to criticise the Constitution – to say that it should have been done this way or that – is the work of experts and professors, but I do not believe it is the work of the European Parliament. The work of the European Parliament is to take a political position with regard to the Constitution. We are going to do so in the report for which our fellow Members, Mr Gil Robles and Mr Tsatsos, are rapporteurs. I believe, Mr President, that you have presented the European Parliament with a challenge today. I remember that in the twenties there was a debate in Germany on the guardian of the Constitution between Carl Schmitt and Hans Kelsen: [The guardian of the Constitution. Who should the guardian of the Constitution be?] I believe that the political work of this European Parliament today, the political message we have to send is that we are becoming guardians of this Constitution. This Constitution is one which this Parliament believes to be good for Europe and for its citizens. I therefore believe that our political message should be to become the guardians of this Constitution. To this end, Mr President, we must play an active part in the Intergovernmental Conference. And I am glad that Mr Fini, who is also imbued with that Convention spirit, has said that the presence of the European Parliament will be real. We do not want it to be ceremonial, we do not simply want to take lunch in Rome, although Rome is a wonderful city. What we want to do is to continue bringing our ideas and our impetus to this Intergovernmental Conference. Mr President, it has been an honour to chair the delegation of the European Parliament, it has certainly been one of the most wonderful adventures, without doubt the most wonderful of my political life, but above all I would like to say here today in this House that I believe that in the end the great beneficiaries will be the citizens of Europe. – Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the Commission for its reply. I am satisfied with it for two reasons. Firstly, it links the Charter of Fundamental Rights with the Intergovernmental Conference, which is the political objective of this Parliament expressed in the report by Messrs Duff and Voggenhuber. Secondly, because it is going to include it within this campaign. Furthermore, I was very pleased with Mr Lamy’s reply – which was inevitable, given that Mr Lamy knows these issues very well – concerning the decentralisation of the information campaign. I believe that this is an important objective because, if we want to reach the people, we have no choice but to go to where they are and, therefore, the decentralisation of the campaign is a priority task. As on other occasions, such as the Intergovernmental Conference of 1996, this Parliament must offer the Commission its support in order to monitor information activities. – Mr President, I believe that the quantity and quality of the speakers on the Charter of Fundamental Rights illustrates the importance this House attaches to it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would urge you to see to it that the hearing you are to hold on the 19th with the President of the Convention, Mr Herzog, should not be a mere formality. It is not simply a question of listening to the President of the Convention, but also of listening to the actual problems which are being faced by the Convention at the moment, of asking what the final objective of the Charter is and of knowing how it is going to proceed. I believe that it would be of great help to the Convention if, in its conclusions, the European Council could make a statement on the future of the Charter, because it appears at the moment that its formulation has demonstrated that the Charter is of interest to the people. The participation of the NGOs, the participation of ordinary people, clearly show that Europeans are interested in the Charter of Fundamental Rights. The institutional questions of the Intergovernmental Conference are enormously important, but they do not reach the people. I believe that the Charter of Fundamental Rights does reach the people. The Charter must be the soul of the European Union and, therefore, at a time when we are discussing enlargement, I believe that the European Council – which has promoted the creation of the Charter – must send a clear political message: the Charter is going to be a very important element of the European Union. The Charter will be the soul of the European Union of the future. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I pray that in the Feira conclusions, which we will all read with enormous interest, the Charter will receive the boost that it deserves, so that the Convention will be able to complete its work properly. In that way we will fulfil the mandate of Salvador de Madariaga, for whom Europe would become a reality only when it is a reality in the minds of the citizens. Mr President, with less passion than the previous speaker, but with at least as much conviction, I would like to say that I feel a sense of frustration over the way in which the Intergovernmental Conference is developing. I feel this sense of frustration firstly because I believe that we have lost the spirit of the Convention, which consisted of seeking the best for the future of the Europe of 25, and my respected friend, Mr Pasqua, recalled Lenin when he said that facts are stubborn. What is more, they really are, because those governments which have to approve the Constitution had a presence in the Convention and actively participated in it, and I believe that nobody should go against their own actions. I feel frustration, Mr President, because I have the feeling that we are going to see over the coming days an attempt to reopen all the issues dealt with in the Convention. The Italian Presidency has sent a proposal telling the governments what has to be dealt with in the Convention. The response has been 150 pages of proposals to reopen almost all the issues that the Convention dealt with. There is also something entirely paradoxical, which is that certain formations of the Council of Ministers – such as the Ecofin Council – are also making proposals to revise the Constitution. The worst thing about these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, is that none of them are ambitious, none of them go further than the Constitutional text. They are cheapskate proposals. In reality, moreover, the Constitutional text could have been more ambitious. I will give an example of what I mean: Part IV, which refers to the revision of the constitutional text, was dealt with very little in the Convention, due to lack of time, and President Giscard d’Estaing even promised that we would discuss it after Thessaloniki. Well this has not happened. Here we have enormous scope for making specific proposals. There is no specific proposal in this regard, however. I also feel frustrated because the spirit of the Convention is a spirit of compromise, but compromise by blocks. But I notice that there are proposals, for example, which seek to reform the budgetary procedure. But this cannot be dealt with separately. It forms a package with the financial perspectives and with own resources. And if we, as the European Parliament, accept the package, we cannot accept now that one part should be left as it is and that the agreement on the budgetary procedure should be broken. I therefore believe that the Intergovernmental Conference must concentrate on genuinely political issues, which have not yet been resolved, on which there is no consensus between the governments and which are very simple: the presidency of the Council and the rotating presidencies, the weighting of votes and the distribution of seats in the European Parliament and the number of Commissioners. Constructive proposals – and I would urge the Italian Presidency to make some – must be presented en bloc and must not be piecemeal. I have therefore once again failed to understand today – and I say this because I am concerned – the speech by the President of the Commission when he says that the weighting of votes is very good, but that, on the other hand, the number of Commissioners must be changed. We cannot accept the parts of proposals that we want and reject the rest. We will have to seek a compromise solution and I hope that the Italian Presidency will do so and do so quickly. – (ES)Mr President, with the passage of time, I believe that it will be seen that the German Presidency has had some successes. With the approval of Agenda 2000, I believe we have produced an agreement between those people whose unfair and selfish motto is  and all those who, led by the government of my country, believe that the European Union is a political project with cohesion and solidarity as its cornerstones. I also believe that the Presidency reacted quickly in the face of the resignation of the Santer Commission and found that ‘one in a million’ which Mr Prodi appears to be. It also seems to me that the appointment of Mr CFSP, after the image which we projected in Kosovo, demonstrates at least that the Presidency wanted to shake up the European Union"s lethargic foreign policy and give it a new impulse. And this new stability plan for the Balkans seems to me to be a positive thing. However, Mr President, there is one thing which has reflected badly, very badly, on this Presidency. I refer to the reform of institutions. Mr Fischer, if there is one thing which all this morning"s speakers have agreed upon, it is the fact that the Cologne Summit does not form a basis for the reform of the Union"s institutions. We want the European Union to work, we want to maintain the principle of integration and we want it to be effective. The proposal of the German Presidency in Cologne, that is, to change the number of Commissioners, reconsider votes, perhaps to move in some areas from a unanimous vote to a qualified majority vote, is quite clearly insufficient. I will go further. You do not understand the protocol of the Union"s institutions. If you believe that there will be enlargement to more than 21 Members, profound institutional reform is required. What you proposed to us in Cologne was a limited reform. And not only I myself, on behalf of my group, but also all the other groups in this Parliament, say that this will only achieve one thing: it will obstruct the European Union. I therefore believe, Mr Fischer, that we in this Parliament are bored of so much verbiage. You came to us and said, and I quote, ‘I praise the role of the European Parliament and the revision of the institutions’. Let me ask you not to praise so much and not to laugh so much. Take note of what we do. We have a resolution dated 19 November 1997 in which we propose a method for the reform of the institutions. We told you of it and you have not taken it into account. Well, we will meet again in this Parliament, Mr Fischer, and you will see that this Parliament will be unanimous in its rejection of any reform which does not guarantee the effectiveness of the Union and guarantee that it really serves the interests of the citizens. – Mr President, I would like to ask you if you would be so kind as to ensure that our Amendment No 24, which has not been distributed with the other amendments to the Napolitano report, is made available to all the Members of this House for tomorrow’s vote. –  Mr President, the report we are debating this afternoon in Parliament is important, because it relates to something we have always defended in this House: the principle of transparency, which means citizens’ right to access documents and also the principles of openness and proximity to these very citizens. For this reason, we are debating Article 255 of the Treaty as reformulated in Amsterdam, and also an important article of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Article 42. After the agreement reached by the Council and Parliament, we need to incorporate the principles promoted by the aforementioned Articles of the Treaty and the Charter of Fundamental Rights respectively into the Rules of Procedure of this House. I would like to congratulate Mrs Maij-Weggen most sincerely on her excellent work; her report, in addition to the amendments she tabled, was adopted in committee with 25 votes in favour to one against. I would also like to congratulate Mr Cashman. I think that a good relationship was maintained between all those involved, and I also believe that all of the proposals tabled by the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs have been taken into consideration by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, Mr President, in the vote that is going to take place tomorrow we shall be transposing a political principle of fundamental importance and incorporating it into our Rules of Procedure. In doing so, we will be including a fundamental principle in the interests of the aforementioned transparency and openness into the set of rules that regulates our relations. Mr President, my group is going to support an amendment it has itself tabled, not by pure chance, but because it is a good amendment. Furthermore, we will support Mrs Maij-Weggen’s proposals. I trust that the result of the vote will be sufficient, that is to say, more than 314 votes, for these proposals to be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure of this House. On behalf of the European People’s Party, I would like to once again congratulate the two rapporteurs for the great work they have done. –  Mr President, Mrs Frassoni is right when she says that today we are united on this matter, but twenty years ago we certainly were not. We have therefore made progress. Today the European Union is united against the death penalty, and this is reflected in the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights in Article 2, where it mentions the right to life. I recall that, when we were discussing this Charter, many in the Convention used to say to us: ‘It is inconsistent to say that this Charter is directed to the institutions of the Union,’ and you, Mr President, will no doubt remember this, ‘and at the same time demand the abolition of the death penalty, when the European Union cannot condemn anybody to death.’ It is true: there was an inconsistency there. We accepted it, however, because we believed that the Charter had to embody the values and principles that underpin the construction of Europe. I must also tell you that recently, Mr President, when I was on a flight here, I was reading the news that the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs had said that the Constitution of that country would have to be rewritten because, in order to join the European Union, it was necessary to abolish the death penalty, as laid down in the Charter of Fundamental Rights. I remembered the title of that Oscar-winning film, ‘Life is Beautiful’, and realised that our work does occasionally bear fruit. Therefore, Mr President, I believe not only that we Europeans should proclaim our desire that the death penalty should be abolished, but that we have a right and a duty to interfere in the affairs of other countries so that they do the same. For that reason, complying with a resolution of a conference held two weeks ago in Strasbourg, we have asked in this resolution – which I am sure will gain the unanimous support of this House – for a special day against the death penalty to be set up: a European day, which I hope will soon be a world day, since I believe there is room for hope. My good friend, Mrs Ana Palacio, who reads everything that is published, has today given me the editorial from the , in which a Supreme Court judge, Mrs O’Connor, who has always been in favour of the death penalty, is today saying the opposite. Mr President, I believe that, if intelligent people change their minds, we shall be able to win this battle throughout the world. – Mr President, today in the vote at 12 noon we will conclude a process that began in 1984 when this Parliament approved the draft Treaty on European Union, which already contained the request for a declaration of rights, a process that we continued in 1989 with the De Gucht Resolution. The Charter of Fundamental Rights has always been a priority for this Parliament, because it has wanted the principles and values that unite Europeans to be reflected in a text. This is particularly important at the present time, when we are beginning an ambitious process of enlargement. The second reason is because the Charter of Fundamental Rights is an essential factor in the move towards political union. Thirdly, Mr President, and surely this is the most important reason, because a Charter of Fundamental Rights is going to increase the feeling of belonging to the European Union. For all these reasons, my group, as its chairman, Mr Poettering, has already said, is going to vote in favour of this Charter. Moreover, this Charter reflects the opinion of Parliament, as we set it out in our Duff/Voggenhuber Resolution on 16 March. The Charter has been drawn up with the participation of a delegation from Parliament and, as chairman of this delegation, I would like to thank all its members for their work, their commitment and their support over all these months. It is true, as one of the speakers said, that we have to make an effort to inform people about the Charter, an effort that can begin in this Parliament. When listening to the speeches from some members, one realises that this information is more necessary than ever. Some people should read the Charter before they speak to prevent them from saying the things that they say. Mr President, allow me to say a few words on the effects of the Charter. I think that there is a false debate. I think that the reference to Article 6 is logical and I think that the President-in-Office of the Council should take note of what Mr Barón Crespo said. The chairman of the group to which the majority of governments in the European Union belong said quite clearly that Parliament – or in any event, his group – will not approve the reform of the Treaty of Nice if no reference is made in Article 6. The Charter is going to have effects, whether or not it is in the Treaty. In fact; it has already had effects. If you read the report of the three wise men on the situation in Austria, you will see that the Charter is mentioned on three occasions. This report was drawn up between 29 August and 6 September, when the Charter had still not been drafted. Therefore, the Charter, whether or not it is included in the Treaties, whether or not it is in Article 6(2), will bind the Commission – and I would like to highlight the important work done by Commissioner Vitorino in drawing up the Charter – will bind Parliament and will bind the Council, and it will have effects, Mr President, whether some Members of this House like it or not. – Madam President, no doubt the Council would like to hear the opinion of the political Groups, which seems to me to be very healthy. Madam President, we are holding this debate at exactly the right time. The convention which is drafting the Charter on Fundamental Rights has begun its work and I believe that we are already doing so at cruise speed. We are dealing with the content involving civil and political rights, and then we will deal with citizenship rights and economic and social rights. It is therefore important for this Parliament to establish a mandate for the members of the delegation representing it and also to establish – and this seems to me to be essential – which political objectives this Parliament will pursue by means of this Charter of Fundamental Rights. The representative of the Committee on Petitions is right to point out that the citizens often ask us what this Charter of Fundamental Rights is for. Fundamental rights are recognised in our constitutions. The Member States of the European Union respect fundamental rights. There is a Rome Convention, upheld by the Court in Strasbourg, which is the ultimate guarantee in the event of a violation. So what is this Charter for? I believe that Parliament should send a very clear message: the Charter of Fundamental Rights is a supplement to these rights guaranteed in the constitutions. Being European has an added positive effect. By means of this Charter we intend to bind the European institutions to a bill of fundamental rights and to bind the Member States to those same rights in their transposition and application of Community law. This is the political message which we must send. Being European is a positive thing. It adds to what we already have as national citizens. The report which we are debating today and voting on tomorrow also seems to explain very clearly what the political objectives of this Parliament are. We do not wish the Charter to be a mere declaration. We do not believe that a declaration is sufficient. We want the Charter to be incorporated into the Treaties precisely because we want the citizens to have more rights and guarantees. Whether or not the Charter is incorporated into the Treaty clearly depends on the work which the convention is able to carry out. It will depend on whether the work is useful and can be incorporated into the Treaties. However, it seems to me essential that Parliament bears this objective in mind with regard to the drawing up of the Charter. It is also important to state, as this report does, that absolutely no harm will be done to the protection of fundamental rights as laid down in existing provisions. There will be no double use of the Convention of Strasbourg. We should make this very clear. I repeat that what we want is to provide the European citizens with a supplementary guarantee when it comes to the application of Community law. I believe that, by affirming the indivisibility of fundamental rights, as this resolution does, or affirming their innovative nature, we are taking positive steps towards an improvement in the living conditions of the European citizens. Madam President, I would like to end by whole-heartedly congratulating both the rapporteurs and the draftsmen of opinions. It is a matter of form in this Parliament to congratulate them, but I would like to do so from a political point of view and on behalf of my Group, because I believe that Messrs Duff and Voggenhuber, and all the draftsmen of opinions, have been able to provide the political response required by Parliament at the moment. I therefore hope, Madam President, that tomorrow’s vote will support the rapporteurs’ good work with a massive vote in favour of this report. – Mr President, not many Members of this Parliament are attending the debate today in this House. And this debate is probably not going to be treated as a priority interest by the media. Nevertheless, and I am addressing the public who are in the galleries, this is a very important debate for European citizens. I hope that today, after many months of work, negotiation and seeking a consensus, this Parliament will take a decision on the report which has been admirably well drawn up by Karl von Wogau, and which represents one more step forward in the process of constructing an economic and monetary Europe, and furthermore, is an important step within the framework of the process started at the Lisbon European Council aimed at achieving greater flexibility, competitiveness and growth and creating jobs. I also hope that this process will include other important decisions at the next European Council in Barcelona. At a point when the euro and its implementation have been a great success, this Parliament, the Commission and the Council must demonstrate that they are fulfilling the obligations laid down for them in the Treaties. Mr President of the Commission, you have done this recently – and I thank you for being here today – by adopting the appropriate measures and reproaching those countries which are on the point of exceeding the criteria established in Maastricht in the field of deficit. This is a good decision, and I am therefore deeply disappointed that the German Commissioner has shown a lack of solidarity in certain comments made in . I do not approve of this, because what we want is to maintain the internal cohesion of the European institutions and the balance between all of them. In this respect, this exercise is politically positive, because Parliament has had to fight hard to gain its competences, like all parliaments. Therefore, having gained them, we want to keep them, since that is what the people demand. Baron Lamfalussy’ proposals, which we all agree are needed, also mean, in the long run, putting our trust in the European Commission. On behalf of my group, I would like to tell you that we have always defended the European Commission, because it is at the heart of the Community institutions and is the most obvious motor for integration. However, as Mrs Berès and Mrs Hautala have quite rightly said, we must take precautions. We neither can nor want to give anybody a blank cheque. That is why this negotiation has gone on so long and has involved so many people. And I would like to acknowledge, not only the rapporteur, whose work we have all praised, but also Mrs Randzio-Plath, Mr Napolitano, the coordinators of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Bolkestein and his team, as well as Mr Rato. Mr President, we have finally achieved a text, whose declaration you have read today and which, in the judgment of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, fully satisfies – and I say this emphatically – our expectations: we are going to be treated on an equal basis with the Council, our rights of codecision and the transparency requirements we demanded are going to be guaranteed and there is a formal commitment from the European Commission that, in the next reform of the Treaties, which the Convention is going to analyse, there should be a modification of Article 202. Today is therefore a good day for European integration: we are sending messages to the markets that we are prepared to make even more progress in realising all the aspects of economic union. It is also good news for the citizens, who, thanks to our choosing this method, are going to see the disappearance of much rigidity, which will give us hope for greater growth and employment in the future. Congratulations, Mr Prodi and Mr von Wogau. Congratulations to all of you. – Mr President, in this Parliament, which is a pluralist parliament, we have today achieved an unusual degree of unanimity amongst the Members who have spoken. I believe that all the speakers are very concerned about the results of the Nice European Council. This is not a question – despite what my friend, Elmar Brok, has said – of two exams that we have to pass; Amsterdam and Nice. No, this is a much longer-standing issue. I remember the enlargement of 1995, when the question of institutional issues was already being raised, and I remember a letter from Chancellor Kohl in which he told us to approve enlargement and then the rest would be resolved immediately. We did so, the enlargement of 1995 went ahead, the discussion group presided over so well by Carlos Westendorp was created, Amsterdam arrived and now we are going to have Nice and practically nothing has changed, Mr President, we go round and round in circles on institutional issues and never find solutions which will allow us to cope with this hugely ambitious task of enlargement to 27 members. This is what worries us and it worries all this afternoon’s speakers. This is the message that we wish to send to the European Council through you, Mr President. You should be aware that we are not going to judge this French Presidency on its considerations of the economic services of general interest, which is a very important issue. No, we are going to judge it on the mandate of the Nice Conference, which is the same as it was in Finland plus enhanced cooperation. There are two aspects of this issue that are absolutely fundamental to this Parliament: How will qualified majority voting be extended? And with this extension, when the decisions are legislative, will there always be codecision with Parliament? That is the first consideration. The second one, Mr President, is the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Institutional issues are not of interest to many people, because they are complicated issues. The Charter of Fundamental Rights – I have had the opportunity to talk about this in many places – is of interest to people, because they understand and feel strongly about fundamental rights. I believe that in the Convention we produced good work. I believe that we have a good Charter and that this Council is going to waste a great political opportunity because, in the proposal you are making, Mr President, the proclamation – the one which my friend and group Chairman, Mr Poettering, calls a  – is a proclamation by stealth. You tell us to proclaim it and leave it at that. You do so as if you were taking care not to disturb anyone. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that is the great political task of this European Council. If you fail to take advantage of it, I fear that you will return here after the European Council in Nice, other presidencies will come around and this Parliament will be tempted to follow Oscar Wilde’s advice, which was that the best way to avoid temptation was to fall into it, and therefore not approve the Treaty of Nice when the time comes. – Madam President, I would like firstly to congratulate the President, Mr Prodi, both on the White Paper and on his comments here today. It seems to me that the forty pages of this White Paper are forty dense pages, full of reflection and proposals. But I also believe that your comments were splendid, succinct, full of ideas and vision, and I would like to congratulate you on behalf of my group. Furthermore, I believe that your manner of presenting the White Paper has been correct. You have done so modestly, and that is to your credit. The White Paper is a departure point. It is just a text which leads to reflection and now we have to ask our co-citizens to participate in this reflection, to offer ideas and to send projects. I believe that all of us in this Parliament agree on the analysis of the situation, that we all wonder what is happening to the European Union and why our co-citizens sometimes show a lack of confidence. I believe that the White Paper explains this well: the benefits of the European Union are general and they often pass unnoticed; however, the disadvantages are specific. I remember the effect in my country when lorries of strawberries were overturned by French farmers. This always happened at the same time of year, one week, and it was just a very isolated incident. That created enormous anti-European feeling: ‘Why does the European Union not worry about us, the European Union does not care for us’. That ended as a result of the efforts of the European Commission, amongst others. Surely the Spanish, or many of them, do not realise that. I believe that our main problem is that we are European without knowing it and without doubt this White Paper has a good role to play in this pedagogical zeal to explain what Europe is and what the European Union is for. The second idea that I would like to highlight on behalf of my group is that this White Paper stresses the originality of the system which has operated over the last fifty years. Furthermore, it supports the continuation of this system which we call the ‘Community method’, yet nobody questions this. Today I have been very glad to hear President Prodi talk about maintaining the balance between the institutions: this seems to me essential. The Group of the European People’s Party, which has always tenaciously supported the European Commission having a monopoly on the exercise of legislative initiative, believes that it is very positive that that legislative initiative, when it comes about, should count on the participation of many more players: of what we call civil society, of local and regional authorities; above all especially if we do so, as Mr Prodi said, without in any way altering the balance between the institutions or the constitutional status of the Member States. Of course, this Parliament is also going to cooperate in this task of contributing ideas. And it is doing so by means of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs whose rapporteur on this issue will be Mrs Kaufmann, and it is also doing so on all those issues which are eventually going to be combined with the reflection of the Commission which President Prodi called the third reflection, which is going to come together in the debate of the IGC 2004. This White Paper is very important because we are at a moment of the historic constituent process of the European Union, and that process opened with declaration 23 at Nice. I am sure that the presence of Commissioner Barnier is in response to this. Therefore, this will be a further element of this process, which is important, and visionary, and which is necessary when Europe is preparing for the euro, for enlargement and for the debate on what we Europeans want. . – Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, four years ago, when I had the honour of presenting the statement on the Treaty of Amsterdam to this Parliament, together with my friend Dimitri Tsatsos, I ended that speech by recalling the words of Miguel de Cervantes who, when old and tired and weary of life, said that there were times when one had to chose between the road or the inn, between moving forward and staying put, and I said: ‘we must chose the road, we must move ahead’. Amsterdam is one more step in that direction. I remember that the Commissioner,our good friend Marcelino Oreja, replied to me with more words from Miguel de Cervantes, telling us of the sorcerers, who can deprive us of everything, but never of our hope. Does the Treaty of Nice, therefore, represent that hope which the European Parliament had put its faith in? The answer is clear: no, it is not what the European Parliament was asking for, because the European Parliament wanted a thoroughgoing reform of the institutions; because the European Parliament wanted to prepare the Union for enlargement; because the European Parliament wanted to deal with the problems of concern to the citizens. The truth, however, is that the governments, which control the agenda at an Intergovernmental Conference, took a different decision and the agenda was, therefore, not the one the European Parliament wanted. The Treaty of Nice has not resolved many of these issues. It has only resolved some of them, satisfactorily in some cases and insufficiently in others. I believe that the merit of this resolution – if it has any – and of this report that Antonio Seguro and myself are presenting, is that it is a balanced document, which reflects that nature of a Parliament which is no longer merely there to provide impetus but is now a co-decision maker. A co-decision-making Parliament means a responsible Parliament and, therefore, a Parliament which has to do things in a balanced way. I would like to pay tribute to all the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who have worked extremely hard to reach a consensus, starting with its Chairman, Giorgio Napoletano, and also my good friend, Antonio Seguro, who has not only been a solid and intelligent contributor, but also an honest one. We are, therefore, talking about a balanced document, in which we explain what we do not like and what we want to see modified in the future, because agreements, and the Treaty of Nice is an agreement, do not last forever – forever is no more than an adverb of time – and are liable to be reformed. The Treaty of Nice itself contains the seed of such a reform. I believe that this resolution looks to the future, towards that Declaration No 23, which lays down the basis for reform. In this constructive spirit, we wanted to help the Swedish Presidency, with which we have had much contact over the last few months, so that this European Council in Gothenburg may show us the future of the European Union through the responses of its institutions. Madam President, we want to see national committees set up in all the Member States so that the people may hold a genuine debate, not a phoney one, and in that way we will discover what the citizens want of Europe in the future. This Parliament also wishes to see the Intergovernmental Conferences prepared by means of a democratic method. We believe that the convention that drafted the Charter on Fundamental Rights should provide the model for this democratic method. Today, when we are seeing so many proposals from different people, all on the convention – which is a positive start – I would say that what the European Parliament wants is a convention based on the model of the convention which drafted the Charter of Fundamental Rights: on that one and none other; because that model was shown to be successful and it brought together various authorities in order to achieve the desired result. On the basis of the convention model, we want the result of that convention also to be the role played by the governments in the Intergovernmental Conference. We are going to make constitutional proposals, and we must not be afraid of the term ‘constitutional’ because, when we talk of competences or institutional structure, we are talking about constitutional issues. The result we are seeking is a European Constitution, and I wish to make this completely clear, a European Constitution which makes everybody’s competences absolutely clear and, above all, makes it clear what each institution does within the institutional structure. We want this to be ready before 2004, before the European Parliament elections, so that the political groups in this House can go into these elections defending our choices. Madam President, I believe – and I recall my initial comments – that this is a path of hope. We are facing the Europe of the euro, the Europe of enlargement, and it is up to us whether this is a path of hope or a path which leads us to a situation of stalemate in the European Union, which none of us want to see. I therefore want this resolution to make a constructive contribution to this road of hope becoming ever broader and our becoming ever more European. – Mr President, it seems to me that a document like this Commission communication, which carries the slogan ‘peace, freedom and solidarity’, is a good omen, and I believe that that slogan could be the slogan of the European Constitution. By the way, although I have read the text very quickly, I notice that the Commission is being a little timid and talks of a text of a constitutional nature. Let us talk of a Constitution. The skeleton presented by Parliament in the European Convention talks of a treaty which establishes a Constitution for Europe; let us talk happily about a Constitution, which is what it is going to be. I also believe, Mr Prodi, that what you have said here, what your communication seeks – efficiency, democracy and clarity – are good objectives. I believe that for these to be at the forefront of our considerations is a good thing. So is the idea of double legitimacy, although I believe we must give this some careful thought. The European Union is traditionally a union of States and of peoples, and I believe we must begin to talk about a union of States and citizens, because ‘peoples’ is a concept from the 1950s. In Maastricht we introduced the concept of European citizenship, and we must therefore begin to talk about European citizens as subjects of the European Union. Therefore, a union of States and citizens. My group’s spokesman, Mr Poettering, has defended something which this Parliament has always had as a first priority, and here we are in agreement with you, which is the defence of the Community method. If we were to make an analysis of the last fifty years of European construction, it seems to me that the most important thing is this Community method and we will therefore be with you. The Community method, however, also means something which I learned many years ago from a person who I admired, Émile Noel, which is institutional balance. Ours is a Community system, which is difficult to explain outside these four walls; and it is a system in which the balance between institutions surely does not correspond to the usual notion of the separation of powers which we know in our own Member States. I know that in the Convention – and this is a good thing – we are following the formula of George Washington, who said for Philadelphia that the Convention can debate everything and propose everything. Therefore, the debate is an open one. If you will allow me to use the expression, there is a ‘free bar’ in terms of considering constitutional models.  But I believe that on this issue, and of course I must read what the Commission is proposing carefully, we must be prudent, because if we interfere with constitutional mechanisms, we may find that there are surprises in store. I believe we must consider whether it is in the Commission’s interest to be elected by the European Parliament and to be able to be dissolved by the Council. Because the important thing for the Commission is to be independent and autonomous, and I believe that to establish more links with other institutions could eventually make a Commission which should be independent into a partisan Commission. I therefore believe we should give this some consideration. In any event, Mr Prodi, I believe that this is a good document. You have done what you had to do and we are going to debate it in the Convention. On the other hand, let me tell you something which I did not like, which is the famous Penelope text which you mentioned earlier. My friend, Mr Barón, spoke about Penelope, the wife of Ulysses. There was a song made famous by Serrat in Spain which was also called Penelope, about a woman who is waiting on a platform for a train and ends up going mad. I believe that by bringing out this text at the same as your declaration, you have not done yourselves a political favour. Today everybody is talking about this Penelope project and nobody is talking about the good document you have presented. – Madam President, I would firstly like to welcome Mrs Lindh. We work very well with the Secretary of State, Mr Danielsson, and it is therefore a pleasure to have you here today. Mrs Lindh, I believe that I do not need to speak at length, since the President of our Group, Mr Poettering, has made a clear, apposite and brilliant speech in which he has spoken loud and clear. Therefore, allow me simply to point out certain issues on what we expect from the Swedish Presidency and from this European Council in Gothenburg. You have said that we have to organise the debate. Of course we do. I agree with the words of the Socialist spokesman: the 7th was a good start, but we have to do more. Therefore, what we want is for you to structure the debate, to make proposals to structure the debate. How must this be done? This Parliament has certain ideas and we are very happy to give them to you. However, as a starter, I will say that it has to take place on a national level, in democracy that is close to the people, and on a European level. This debate is very important and cannot be closed. It cannot be simply delivered on a plate, ready-made. This debate must have conclusions, which will make up the second phase. This debate would be frustrating for the participants if it did not include room for drawing up and proposing ideas. That is what we call the convention method. The convention which drew up the Charter of Fundamental Rights was a success, because it brought together national and European legitimacy and it included transparency, publicity and participation by the people. Furthermore, all of this led to a document which you yourselves, at the European Council in Biarritz, recognised as being positive. Therefore, things may be amended, others may be joined together, but it provides us with a model which may be of use. I think that it will be very useful to work together on this model. Finally, with regard to the timetable, it seems to me that if we do all of this, the IGC 2004 will have to be very brief, since the work will already be largely completed. I believe it is also very important that this model allows for the participation of the candidate countries. Europe is not only being built by those of us already in the Union, but also by those who are waiting to join it. Madam President-in-Office, I believe that you are going to take away a very favourable impression of this debate today, since all the participating spokespeople from the extraordinarily varied Groups have said more or less the same thing. The parliamentary groups are whistling the same tune. I believe that if we work with you and, of course, with the Commission – and I would like to thank Commissioner Barnier for his marvellous speech – from this one common tune, together we will be able to compose a fine European symphony. –  Mr President, this is not the best time to debate the Lamassoure report. This is because it is very late and, secondly, because the final of the Champions League is being played and Real Madrid – I am sorry, Mrs Randzio-Plath, Mrs Schroedter – are beating Bayer Leverkusen. Oh, no! Bayer have equalised. No-one is perfect. This is bad news, because I was so happy and now the score is one all. Yet this is also a good time to debate this report, because it is extremely important. I would firstly like to pay homage to Mr Lamassoure, who is not only a highly intelligent rapporteur, but also a rapporteur from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but who, although he has not said so himself, has seen every single article from his original proposal amended. This, in itself, is great proof of his flexibility and political capacity. Look at him, he even seems cheerful. He could have been very angry at all the changes that have been made – but no – he is happy, because, at the end of the day, the Lamassoure report characterises a solid position adopted by Parliament on an enormously difficult and complicated issue, which causes a great deal of conflict. I believe, Mr President, that in addition to Mr Lamassoure’s valour in having drawn up this report, we have achieved something very important, which is to have a Parliament position on this issue, a position which, additionally, brings together what Parliament has been advocating for fifty years, which in my opinion, is very important. In the Lamassoure report, we are defending the competences allocated to the EU. The rapporteur states this very clearly. We have decided that the European Union must enjoy only the competences allocated to it by the Treaties and no others, which means that we are against this idea of a catalogue of competences, which would only serve to add rigidity to the Union’s competences. We are in favour of a flexible interpretation and of the idea that, at any moment, through the mechanisms he has upheld, from Article No 308 and other Articles from the Treaty, Article No 99 specifically, we can accommodate the needs of the Union and the aspirations of its citizens. Secondly, I believe that the Lamassoure report also puts forward a very solid position on one of the great issues in the Convention, the control of subsidiarity. I believe that one of the main issues in the debate on the Convention will be how to control subsidiarity, for, as the rapporteur has very clearly stated, the great majority of competences are competences shared between the Union and the Member States. Therefore, to know at which moment we have to use one and at which the other will be the key to keeping Europe running at the rhythm its citizens require. I believe that we also have a very solid position in this regard. I am going to make a declaration, because I know that some fellow Members still have doubts, in favour of the position taken by Alain Lamassoure: I believe the control of subsidiarity should be exercised by the body within whose competence it falls to make proposals – in other words – the European Commission. I believe that the European Commission must have the right of initiative and that it must take charge of subsidiarity. However, I believe that, if there are any discrepancies, we need to find a way to resolve them, and the way to do this is not through a political body or some sort of subsidiarity chamber, but through a system similar to the one established by the French Constitution for the French Constitutional Council, in which a month is given for the issue to be resolved. It seems to me that this is a solid, principled position: control by the Commission, with a Constitutional Council, and I believe that we should defend this position. Finally, Mr President, I believe that the Lamassoure proposal is ambitious. There is a William Faulkner character who I like very much and am very fond of, who says that we have to have very ambitious dreams, so that, as we go through life chasing these dreams, we know where we stand in relation to them. I believe that the Lamassoure report allows this and that all our hopes and dreams are also permitted. – Mr President, I do not agree with the last observation by Mrs Berès. It is not a question of having an amendment passed. It is a question of reflecting, in relation to a text which is important in terms of the Convention, on something which is of great importance to this Parliament, which is the legitimacy, the double legitimacy, of the Union. Mr Tsatsos and I, in our report on the Treaty of Amsterdam, speak of the double legitimacy of States and peoples. The concept of the people seems to us to be an archaic one. We want to talk of citizens, because we want to bring Europe closer to the citizens. I am not therefore withdrawing my amendment and I would ask that it be put to the vote. And I would also ask the Socialist Group to take on board that this is truly the modern way to act and not the old-fashioned one. –  Mr President, I would like to congratulate the President of the Commission on his speech today and on his report on the year 2000. I would also like to highlight the important role which this report attributes to the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights, on which I would like to congratulate Commissioner Vitorino for his great contribution. The Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Mr President – and now we will have to see how we can include this Charter in the Treaty – also have another side. To defend fundamental rights means to attack those who violate them within the European Union. And I therefore believe that all initiatives relating to the third pillar are of paramount importance to this Parliament. This has been said today by Mr Poettering and many other speakers. For us, the communitisation phase of the issues, which, in Maastricht, were in the third pillar, is paramount. And I believe there is an initiative, Mr President, which the Commission has highlighted in its six-monthly scoreboards, to which we attach great importance: I am referring to the European arrest order. I believe that there can be no place in the European Union for terrorists, for those terrorists who yesterday placed another bomb in Madrid and who have tried to end the lives of people, of European citizens. I therefore believe that if we do things for real, if they can be done, if they can be made tangible, if they can be seen, such as that idea of putting the alleged terrorist before that judge who has issued an arrest order in European territory, European citizens will understand that this is what integrating Europe is about and that this is something useful. This is how we will make a real contribution to bringing Europe closer to the citizens. Mr President, I am sure that this initiative, which is one of the Commission's priorities, will soon be a reality. I would therefore like to encourage you to continue along these lines. – Mr President, I gave the wrong information. I shall correct that now: Real Madrid 2, Bayern Leverkusen 1! – Madam President, the speech by the President-in-Office of the Council gives me the opportunity to remind him of two things: first, that this Parliament – as far as I know – has not given up on drafting a report on the number of Members of this Parliament in the Treaties. In other words, we might yet please him by providing this report he is so keen on. Secondly, the position of this Parliament has never been that the Charter was to be the preamble to the Treaties. This idea has appeared from somewhere but it is not the position of the European Parliament. When we talk of insertion we do not mean that we want it to be the preamble. In any event, Madam President, I believe that Biarritz has contributed something very positive, and that is the unanimous approval of the Charter. A second very positive thing was the adoption of the Charter in its entirety. It also seems possible to me – and we are talking about policy – not to put the Charter on ice, to use Mr Barón Crespo’s expression, but to entrust it to the Swedish Presidency for its incorporation to be studied. I believe that now, in this policy of forward movement, the inclusion in Article 6(2) of the Treaty on European Union is very important, as there is no sense – and I do not wish to be inconsistent – in the European Union deciding not to provide a legal basis in the Treaty for the Union to be able to adhere to the European Convention on Human Rights and, at the same time, talking in the same paragraph about the interpretation of fundamental rights based on this same European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. It therefore seems that mentioning the Charter in the Treaty of Nice is something that makes perfect sense. I therefore believe that with the resolution on which we are voting tomorrow, we are giving a very clear mandate to our two representatives, Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, to enable them to present a proposal to this end at the Nice Summit. – Mr President, the Group of the European People’s Party was not satisfied with the conclusions of the European Council in Helsinki. It seemed to us that the agenda lacked content, because our group was thinking in terms of the Treaty and, specifically, the protocol on the Union’s institutions. In Helsinki, the governments approved the idea that, as long as the European Union consists of fewer than 21 States, a minimal reform would be sufficient. With more than 21, a deeper reform would become necessary. The European Council in Helsinki itself approved enlargement involving 13 new Member States. It is therefore inconsistent to open accession negotiations with 13 countries while contemplating a minimal reform. We are therefore thinking in terms of the Treaty and we want the agenda of the next Intergovernmental Conference to allow for a deeper reform of the Union. Having said this, Mr President, this Parliament is holding this debate today because we did not want to delay the start of the Conference. In theory, we could have done so. We could have voted on the 17th of this month and the Conference would not have been able to start on the 14th. However, we did not want to do this because we wish to send a clear political signal to the governments and the candidate countries that we want this reform to take place, precisely in order to facilitate enlargement. Mr President, I am very happy to be able to say this to the Portuguese Presidency because it has earned great respect in this Assembly. The Portuguese Presidency shares many of this Parliament’s aspirations and has committed itself to doing everything it can to ensure that the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference is widened to include other essential issues. Mr President, I would like to point out that this aspiration on the part of the European Parliament is not an aspiration to gain benefits for the European Parliament itself. However, the European Parliament will be reinforced politically by the Treaty resulting from this Intergovernmental Conference. This is for one very simple reason: according to the agreements made in Helsinki, this Intergovernmental Conference will lead to issues, which are currently decided unanimously, being decided by a qualified majority. Therefore, the number of issues decided by a qualified majority will increase. It is already established within the Community acquis that those legislative issues which are decided by a qualified majority are also subject to codecision with Parliament. Therefore, since the qualified majority will be extended, there will also be more codecision with Parliament. However, this Parliament would not be fulfilling its role as a supranational European institution if it did not consider the political design of the Union. That it is what we are doing. We believe that, in the political design of the Union, other issues need to be dealt with. These include, amongst others, the incorporation into the Treaty of security and defence issues, which have made much progress recently, but which must be incorporated into the Treaty. Of course there is also the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and work began on its wording yesterday, which I believe has started very positively. We are going to work seriously to ensure that the Europeans come to see being European as an advantage and that European citizens have certain fundamental rights which are connected to the Union’s institutions. Therefore, Mr President, our proposals, which we will specify in another report, together with the proposals of the Commission, which has produced an excellent document – and I am happy to be able to say this here to Mr Barnier – are going to be used as conference documents. We will talk about this on another day. Today we must give the green light to this conference, and, for its part, the Group of the European People’s Party, Mr President, is ready to give that green light. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference is insufficient. The Commission has said so, and all the political groups in this Parliament have said so. It is insufficient, but the Helsinki conclusions also leave open the possibility of resolving this insufficiency: I believe that this is the task of the Portuguese Presidency at the moment and it is what Parliament is currently asking for. It is not a very ambitious task; it simply requires common sense. We need the Intergovernmental Conference to deal with other issues, because we do not want Intergovernmental Conferences to take place every three or four years. We want this Intergovernmental Conference to resolve these issues for some time to come. In our opinion, Mr President, there are essentially three issues which should be introduced into the conference agenda. The first refers to the role of Europe in the world. The institutional aspect of the security and defence policy, which has seen great progress in recent times, and which enjoys majority support in terms of European public opinion, should finally come together in Nice. Another important issue which we should consider is reinforced cooperation. Enlargement, our objective for the next few years, and the European Union’s historic challenge, will require flexible formulas in terms of implementing our policies. I believe that we all understand the arguments for this. Therefore, in order to facilitate enlargement, that agenda will have to include a discussion of reinforced cooperation. Finally, there is another issue which seems to me to be important. A few weeks ago we began a novel exercise which, in the eyes of the European citizens, will be of supreme importance: the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights. The Tampere conclusions talk of the possibility of a declaration, or its inclusion in the Treaty. I believe that, in the end, we will have to incorporate the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Treaty. We will thereby achieve something important: we will link the European Union with the citizens. I will express it in your beautiful language, in the words of a Portuguese poet. We should link human rights with that “" [“clockwork train known as the heart”]. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have an important task ahead of you and this Parliament trusts you to carry it out. Mr Seguro has made an appeal and I would also like to hear the Portuguese Presidency’s commitment with regard to the question from the Member from the Socialist Group. – Mr President, I would like to refer to the closing words of the draftsman of the opinion, Mr Bösch. I believe he is right, that this is an issue that was difficult to incorporate into our Rules of Procedure and that, in the end, it has been resolved satisfactorily. Of course, there were perhaps other possibilities, but in this Parliament there was, above all, one concern: to fulfil the objectives which we had set. That is to say, fight fraud, corruption and any illegal activity which harms our Community. But we are a political Assembly and politicians – as we know well – are subject to all kinds of influences. We have tried to prevent a healthy, specific political objective from being misinterpreted and misused. That discussion which we held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the means by which any possible illegal activity could be brought to the knowledge of OLAF, I believe has led us to a suitable means, because a political body must have a filter which can examine whether this information is well-founded or not and whether or not it contravenes the immunity and inviolability of Members. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that the amendments which we have introduced in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs fulfil the objective of reconciling the decision of the three institutions with the characteristics of our own decision. Please allow me to congratulate two people in particular. One is the President of the Committee on Budgetary Control, Mrs Theato, who is in a way the mother of OLAF and of all these regulations. The other, who I consider to be the father of the current regulation, is Mr Napolitano, who has shown great moderation, intelligence and, above all, courage, in the quest for this difficult solution. – Mr President, I believe that the applause which followed the intervention of the President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists expressed very clearly the feeling of this Parliament. We feel that this is not the right time to hold this debate. And this, Mr President, is because this debate is very important, not only for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also for the Union in general and for those people who want Europe to be effective, more democratic and more just. Just the other day, another MEP asked me: “What solutions does the European Parliament propose for the Intergovernmental Conference?” And I answered in the same way as I will today, that this is not the time for solutions or proposals, but rather the time to decide what the Intergovernmental Conference is going to deal with and what method it will use in its work. And that is what the report drawn up by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen has done, and furthermore it has been a good illustration of how two intelligent people can reach reasonable agreements. I believe that the resolution tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is politically intelligent; it deals with the issues and takes a very clear and decisive political line. And what is that line? Well, Mr President, it is one which is dictated by common sense. The Treaty of Amsterdam did not resolve the issue of the institutional questions facing us. And the signatories of the Treaty recognised this since they added a protocol, the protocol concerning the institutions in preparation for the enlargement of the European Union, specifically to see how these questions should be resolved in the future. That protocol envisaged a dual institutional reform. The first one for a European Union of less than 21 Member States and the second for when it has more: an initial mini-reform and a second broader one. The logic of that Protocol on the institutions tallied with the Commission’s Agenda 2000 document, which envisaged an initial enlargement which we will call 5+1. Now President Prodi’s new proposal breaks with this logic, because there are no longer 5+1, but rather 12 in the race. This new thinking has now broken with the thinking of the Protocol on the institutions. Therefore, that first small reform, in which we only had to consider the Commission and the weighting of votes in the Council and to which the Cologne Declaration has also added the possible extension of qualified majority voting, does not make much sense and responds to a different political logic. Therefore we are talking about the second part of the Protocol on the institutions; we are facing a more profound reform of the European Union, which prepares it for enlargement. To this end, Mr President, I think that we should combine this demand, which before I called common sense, with what the President-in-Office of the Council said: that which is possible. But I believe that the Presidency of the Council has a great responsibility at the moment, because assessing what is possible should not prevail over the dictates of common sense. We already know that, as a general rule, the governments do not want to change things too much; they are happy to make do with what we have. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must push them a little bit, because otherwise, what I fear you understand to be “what is possible” will be too little for the needs of the European Union. I think that the report by Messrs Dimitrakopoulos and Leinen is full of good ideas, is absolutely reasonable and establishes the points which, in our opinion, should be considered at the upcoming Intergovernmental Conference. My group, on whose behalf I am speaking, is very much in agreement with this report, but I am going to mention three amendments which may be added to it and whose vote I will request in this House: My group’s Amendment No. 18 which requests that Parliament be consulted on the annual economic guidelines, the decisions involving budgetary short-falls and any other important decision which has to be taken within the framework of European Economic and Monetary Union, of course leaving to one side the independence of the European Central Bank. It seems to me that this is an issue that this Parliament should be involved in. Amendment No. 26 in which we also incorporate, with regard to the distribution of competences, the principle of subsidiarity. And finally any of the Amendments, Nos. 47, 26, 27 or 28, which talk of flexibility. I believe that we should open the debate on flexibility. But all of this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should take into account an essential element: we should not forget what the European Community has meant over all these years nor the thing which is most important to the Community, which is the principle of integration. That is what we have to preserve and that, if we do not carry out the appropriate reforms, will be very difficult to preserve in a Europe of 28. – Madam President, this is a truly historic event: the first modification of the 1976 Act. President Gil Robles, whom I would like to congratulate as rapporteur for this parliamentary assent, has said that many drafts have become deadlocked. I remember how a distinguished British Conservative, Edmund Burk, said that Spain was like a whale washed up on the shores of Europe (or something like that, I am quoting from memory). Therefore, I am very pleased that it is the Spanish Presidency that has managed to break the deadlock on this issue and that in 2002, under the Spanish Presidency, we will have the first reform of the Electoral Act. I believe this is one of the few cases in which the European Parliament is called upon to issue an assent, that is to say, to vote yes or no, and, furthermore, so that this assent may have legal results, there must be an absolute majority in the House. This was the conflict the European Parliament was faced with: what to do. As the rapporteur said, it is true that not all of the aspirations of the European Parliament contained in its previous report, drawn up by our friend and former colleague, Mr Georgios Anastasopoulos, have been taken into account. It is also true that it was necessary to adapt this Electoral Act to the various and successive modifications of the Treaties. And it is also the case that we had to comply with a mandate and resolve an issue which stemmed from a judgment of a Court – in this case the Strasbourg Court – and therefore adapt our electoral system to the judgment in the Matthews case. That is what is being done. Like the rapporteur, I believe that most of the considerations expressed by the European Parliament on these issues, in its previous report, since the Treaty of Amsterdam modified the uniform electoral system in accordance with the general principles of electoral law, appear in the spirit and the letter of the text before us today. The Group of the European Peoples’ Party is therefore going to vote in favour, and it is true that there will be time to accommodate other requests from the European Parliament in the future. The historic nature of this moment, however, does not end there, because the Group of the European Peoples’ Party is going to support an amendment presented by Mr Bonde – a very unusual thing in this Parliament – because we think it is a good amendment, an amendment in which Mr Bonde says and maintains that those Members of Parliament elected in the territory of a State represent the whole of the electorate, something which, by the way – and this brings me back to what I said at the beginning – was also advocated by Edmund Burk in his comments to the voters of Bristol in 1794. Madam President, I would therefore like to say that my group will vote in favour of this assent which Mr Gil Robles has drawn up with such skill and dexterity. . –  Mr President, I think that the European Council that is about to take place, this time in Laeken, is of fundamental importance. We are at one of those pivotal moments, as Karl Jaspers would say. We will find that the introduction into circulation of euro notes and coins will increase the sense of belonging to Europe. Negotiations on enlargement will mean that a longstanding dream of many Europeans becomes reality. I think that the terrorist attacks against Washington and New York on 11 September have awoken the consciousness of European citizens, who are now asking for more Europe and better Europe. Therefore, your responsibility, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is great indeed. But let me tell you that I think you are doing a very good job, and I would like to say that this Belgian Presidency has maintained an excellent attitude towards the European Parliament, one that has been based upon collaboration, participation, listening and, in short, the desire to work together. Support for the Convention is something that this Parliament chose to adopt a long time ago, even before Nice. In the Resolution of 17 November 1997, which I had the honour to present together with Dimitri Tsatsos, with regard to the Treaty of Amsterdam, we were already saying that the intergovernmental method for the revision of the Treaties had run its course and that we would have to look for another method. This method is the Convention. Do not think that the European Parliament gave its support to the Convention because of some kind of obsession. This is not true. We did this because the Convention brings Europe closer to its citizens, because it is more open, more public, more transparent, more participatory; it allows, as the Convention that drafted the Charter proves, that our citizens want to be involved in the construction of Europe. For this reason we have put our faith in the Convention, and I am happy to say that the Convention will be brought to life in the Laeken declaration. Make no mistake about the Convention, however. It is an instrument. With regard to another famous Convention in history, the Philadelphia Convention, George Washington said that you could talk about everything, propose everything yet decide upon nothing. This is also true. What we want is to help the decision making process, bringing Europe closer to its citizens, its people and bringing together the various legitimacies of the European Union. Therefore, Members of the Council, there is no need to be afraid of the Convention. There is no need to take a successful instrument and empty it of content. There is no need to constrict the Convention. You must give the Convention all it needs to be a success. The previous speakers – above all Mr Leinen, with whom I have had the great pleasure of collaborating in the drafting of this report – have spoken about many different subjects. Let me highlight some of these. Firstly, the European Parliament is asking that, if we take our model to be the Convention that drafted the Charter on Fundamental Rights, the four parts of which it is comprised be balanced. In that particular Convention, there were 16 MEPs and 62 members of the Convention. In the proposal that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have sent to the capitals there are still 16 MEPs, but there are 120 members of the Convention. And I do not accept that some of these extra people are observers, because observers have exactly the same rights as everybody else, and so they should, except during participation in the final consensus. I would also like to say, despite the words of a previous speaker, that the Commission has participated fully, and I would like to praise Commissioner Barnier’s observations, which have been very important. However, there is still an ambiguity with regard to the word ‘consensus’: consensus does not mean unanimity. This was not the case in the Convention that drafted the Charter. There were members of the Convention that voted against – and there is one very notable opponent amongst us today – but there was a sufficient majority, a sufficient consensus. Therefore, let it not be said, yet again, that consensus means unanimity. This is not true. It means final support for the resulting text. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is one issue that you, yourself, said is still not resolved, which is to the issue known as ‘cooling’. And as for myself, when I have to explain that after this work carried out by the one hundred and twelve people on reaching a final result, governments want to ‘cool down’, things become extremely complicated. What is this ‘cooling’ process? If the result is a good one, let us adopt it immediately, then we can move on to other things. We have enlargement to prepare for. To conclude, Mr President, I think that we have to get rid of this fear of the Convention. We have to remember that Europe is asking us to give a positive indication. But what indication? This can only be the Intergovernmental Conference. I also hope that, at the end of this process, the indication will be a Constitution for the European Union. – Mr President, thank you very much for your words and I would like to congratulate you on having called this plenary session just a few days after the closing session of the Convention and just a few days before the European Council in Thessaloniki. This Parliament will be the first to debate the draft Constitution. And it is with emotion that I would like to point out that, in 1997, it was this Parliament, in a report for which Mr Dimitris Tsasos and myself were rapporteurs, that approved the replacement of the intergovernmental method with what we then called the Community method for the reform of the Treaties. That Community method, enshrined in the Resolution of 19 November 1997, is the Convention. The European Parliament’s option has therefore been a successful one, because I would like to say quite seriously that, in the 16 months of the Convention’s work, we have done more than in ten years of Intergovernmental Conferences. Firstly, Mr President, we have a Constitution. I remember how this Parliament was also a pioneer, through the report by Mr Olivier Duhamel, in calling for the constitutionalisation of the Union. This constitutionalisation is going to increase efficiency and is going to produce a Union of results. Many of our requests are in the text: the pillars disappear, the Union has a legal personality, we are going to reinforce the Community method, we have guaranteed the Commission's monopoly on initiative, a legislative procedure in which the Council and Parliament are on an equal footing will become the normal procedure. We have also achieved a move from unanimity to qualified majority in many areas, and this Parliament will be involved in 70 of them, when at the moment it is involved in 34. We also have a great simplification of methods, Mr President: we have ended up with five decision-making procedures and we have managed to use a language which was far-removed from the Community jargon. But we have also democratised the Union, starting with the first article of the Constitution, which speaks of the Union's double legitimacy, something which this Parliament has always advocated as a Union of states and citizens. When I entered this Parliament in 1992 it was a consultative assembly. After the Constitution this Parliament will be a Parliament worthy of its name. And this democratising effect also impacts on national parliaments. I would like to pay tribute to Mr Napolitano and his report, for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because we have created a means for involving national Parliaments in the Community procedure by means of the early warning system. I would also like to say to all of those people who have always noted a degree of rivalry between the national Parliaments and the European Parliament that our main allies in this Convention have been the national Parliaments. And I would like to pay tribute to them for that. I also believe, Mr President, that we have done something enormously important, something we have fought for in this Parliament, which is to integrate the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Constitution. We called for this before Nice and we did not achieve it, but the Charter of Fundamental Rights is now going to become the document which will give Europeans their identity. And not only have we reinforced the representative institutions, but also the participatory ones. The Constitution has recognised the role of non-governmental organisations and associations, and we have incorporated popular initiative as an instrument for semi-direct democracy. Mr President, when Mr Giscard d'Estaing was asked last week who had won, he said that in terms of this Constitution the European Parliament had won. I believe the citizen has won. I believe this is a triumph for the European citizens, who are going to have a Union capable of producing better results, a more transparent Union and, above all, a more efficient Union. And allow me to say that, as Chairman, I have been very honoured to carry out this task. Very honoured because the 32 members of the delegation – we have not distinguished between members and substitutes – have done exceptional work in defending the positions of Parliament and in providing technical and political support at all times for myself, for Klaus Hänsch and for Andrew Duff. Please let me say one more thing, Mr President: go to Thessaloniki. I believe that this Parliament's political message is a very clear one. You have said that this Constitution represents radical progress. I believe this is the most important advance the European Union has made since the Treaties of Rome, and I am therefore convinced that the Intergovernmental Conference is not going to improve it. I believe that we should defend this text, which has been presented without options, as the European Parliament wanted, to the end. At the end of this process, moreover, Mr President, I believe we must put it to a referendum. Certain governments, such as the Spanish Government, have asked that such a referendum take place on the same day as the European Parliament elections; and I believe this would represent the culmination of this democratising element contained in the European Constitution. Thank you very much to everybody for your help. Without your help, without everybody's help, this would have been impossible. – Mr President, my group believes the initiative to commemorate Monnet and Spinelli today to be a good one. Because without Monnet, the great inspiration in the shadows, the declaration of 9 May 1950, which is the founding act of European construction, could not be understood, and without the declaration there would not have been Franco-German reconciliation and it would not have been possible to reconcile the Europeans. And without his decisive advocacy of de facto solidarity it would not have been possible to make progress towards a common market, the forerunner to political union. And without his institutional vision, and in particular the key role for the European Commission, we would not have been able to overcome the straitjacket of cooperation between governments. Also 20 years ago – and this has been pointed out here – this House, which had been democratically elected for the first time, approved the Treaty which we know as the ‘Spinelli Treaty’, whose rapporteur was Spinelli himself. The ‘Spinelli Treaty’ has been an essential reference for all successive modifications: the Single Act, the Treaties of Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice and, of course, the Treaty drawn up by the Convention. When I had the honour of chairing the European Parliament's delegation to that Convention, I always had the Spinelli draft beside me. And I would think to myself, ‘what would Spinelli say about this?’ and I must acknowledge that, although it was produced 20 years ago, the ‘Spinelli Treaty’ was incredibly relevant to today and many of the proposals he made are now in the Constitutional Treaty. There is something which unites Monnet and Spinelli, Mr President: both wanted to unite people. ‘Let us unite men’, said Monnet. And the whole of the ‘Spinelli Treaty’ is full of references to citizens, to people. I believe – and my friend Dick Roche said this earlier – that they would both feel proud of what we have done over these years, because I believe that the draft Constitutional Treaty is a treaty for people. And this starts with the first article, which speaks of a Union of States and citizens, and also where it grants the European Parliament full legislative powers and powers of political control, or where it introduces national parliaments, by means of the early warning system. There is also the popular initiative and the recognition of the role of the regions and municipalities and of NGOs, all of which is in favour of people. In our work over 50 years, we have done what both Monnet and Spinelli called for: to unite people. And allow me to tell you a little secret: as a child, as I was, between Monnet and Spinelli, when I left my country, which in the words of Gil de Biedma was ‘an old inefficient country’, I was faced with a Europe full of walls, the Berlin Wall, the wall of the Pyrenees, the wall of dictatorships, the wall of egotisms and the wall of nationalisms. Today’s Europe, the Europe which my daughter sees, is a Europe without walls, and those which still remain will fall. At this moment when a wonderful enlargement has taken place, with which we have sewn together two Europes, with which we have realised that project expounded in the declaration of 9 May, I would like to say to the new countries which make up the European Union that they should enjoy their incorporation into the Union just as we Spaniards enjoyed ours, with the prospect of freedoms, prosperity and above all of sharing a common project. Mr President, we politicians often talk about the future and I believe there will be time to fight the battles and overcome the obstacles we face, but I believe that today we have meditated on the past, on Monnet and Spinelli, and I would ask that we take pleasure in the present. Because today's present is a wonderful one. Monnet and Spinelli would certainly be described as utopian, but Lamartine was right when he said that utopia is nothing more than a truth whose time has not yet come. And today the ups and downs of life often make reality much nicer than literature. I therefore believe that today we must enjoy this wonderful moment, savour it, take pleasure in it. We have created the Greater Europe, and on this marvellous morning, as I walked towards this Strasbourg palace, I remembered that episode of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe in Valmy, when he suddenly stood up in front of a group of people and, possessed by an extraordinary strength, said: ‘we are witnessing an historic moment, life will never be the same and you will be able to say: we were there’. Mr President, this debate is becoming very emotional, but my comments are not in that vein. I think the Intergovernmental Conference is turning out as could have been expected. I am not at all surprised by the developments in the Conference. I would like to say to the President-in-Office of the Council that I think that the Italian Presidency is doing well in some areas. I think good progress is being made on certain subjects, such as the social clause. This was something we did not succeed on in the Convention. I think it would be a positive step if your Presidency succeeded in putting this on the agenda, and we could then see how many Socialist governments support the idea. I also think that there are other matters on which you will manage to obtain reasonable agreements – the question of a European Public Prosecutor, for example. If your proposal entailed a European Public Prosecutor who would deal with matters affecting the Union’s financial interests, I think this House could accept it, provided that the Public Prosecutor was appointed using the ordinary legislative procedure rather than by a unanimous decision. You have a consensus proposal here which, I think, will allow us to move forward. There are, however, some other issues where the Italian Presidency has not sought to find a compromise solution, and I do not understand their reasoning. Take the question of double majority, for example. I do not see why the Italian Presidency has refused to come up with any alternative proposal to the Convention text when they have done so in several other cases. Time is marching on. I believe there is only one more ministerial meeting scheduled before the definitive Council meeting, and I am not sure we will achieve a result that will be acceptable to all parties. Obviously, in political terms, this is not really the best time to be addressing the subject, since the breakdown of the Stability Pact seems to suggest that there are two different standards in use in the European Union – and I would appreciate it if you would pass these comments on to Mr Tremonti – which is not really helping to create a climate conducive to obtaining a consensus. Unlike a previous speaker, however, I do feel that we have to complete our work by 13 December. I do not think that having more time to consult our grandparents – to use the words of my fellow Member, who is not here at the moment – will lead to a better result. I do not think it will work. In my view, the situation is cut and dried: we are all familiar with the solutions that have been put forward, we know what alternatives are available, and I think we now have to give a political signal by approving the Constitution on 13 December. That is the political signal we need to give. I think enlargement is another reason why we need to do so. Enlargement is the big gamble for Europe and for this Parliament, and has to go hand-in-hand with the political recasting embodied by the Constitution. It would be very hard to explain if enlargement were completed on 1 May 2004 but for some reason there was no Constitution. I therefore urge you to persevere, and call on the national governments to demonstrate pride in the European Constitution, to forget national interests and consider that what we need at the present time is a Constitution for a Union of both States and citizens, which will allow us to work together in the exciting period the coming years represent. So, keep up the good work, President-in-Office of the Council. Keep on trying to reach agreement. Keep on working towards completion on 13 December. – Madam President, I believe that Mr Corbett, instead of concerning himself with the amendments of the Group of the European People’s Party, should concern himself with clarifying the situation of the members of his Group. This would surely be a great improvement. – Mr Prodi, I am going to vote for you, but I confess that I am not going to vote very willingly. And if you bear in mind that a Spanish politician once said that the Spanish are characterised by their willingness, you can imagine the mood I am in. Why am I going to vote unwillingly? Well, because I believe that what Europe needs are three things that in my language begin with “i”: (ideas)(aspiration)and (motivation). I believe that the speech which you have made today has suffered from a lack of all three. It has been a speech with no clear political objectives, no edge, and has been downright boring. You have said that you want the Commission to be the Government of Europe. So do I, but I believe that your speech has not been that of a President of a European Government but more like a speech of a Secretary-General of the United Nations. I will give you an example of what I mean by specific commitments. The next European Council will cover constitutional reform. Mr Barnier made an excellent contribution before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and he made certain compromises, because this Parliament does not simply aspire to co-operating with the Commission. What was it that you said today: “the Commission and Parliament will co-operate”? No, we already take co-operation for granted, it is in the tradition of the Community. What we have wanted since 1997 is to prepare for the Intergovernmental Conference in conjunction with the European Commission. The Commission must consider this matter – and this Parliament will do the same thing – and these two institutions of the European Union will together try to produce a preparatory document to facilitate the adoption of agreements. You have not said a word about this although it has been the doctrine of this Parliament since 1997. Therefore, Mr Prodi, allow me to give you a piece of advice. We have to make more commitments, we have to be less prudent, because the Europeans want a strong Commission, which works hard and strives for the interests of Europe. Mr Prodi, I believe that our citizens are going to demand this objective more and more every day, and not speeches void of commitments. Mr President, I believe it is highly symbolic that after the debate on enlargement, on the political reunification of the continent, we should hold this debate on the political reorganisation of the continent, which must end with the approval of the European Constitution; I believe that the two things are united and, as the Italian Presidency has quite rightly said, this must be the case so that we can go into the 2004 elections on the basis of a European Constitution. I said the other day, Mr President, that I believed that so far the debates in the Intergovernmental Conference have produced a degree of frustration, and I explained this, like Klaus Hänsch, by saying that the debates we were seeing were a repetition of those we had held during the Convention. There was nothing new and  as Michel Barnier has already said very correctly  all that was being produced was a reduction of what had been obtained. I must also say that we should find cause for satisfaction in it, because it ultimately means that the Convention did good work and if the governments present back to us what they presented to us then, that means that what we supported then was the solution which achieved the greatest consensus. I would like to refer to an issue which has been the subject of the last meeting at ministerial level and which has been the cause of great concern to the representatives of Parliament. I am referring to the intention of the ECOFIN Council of Ministers to make a series of proposals which, at the end of the day, meant entirely undoing the compromise achieved by the Convention on Title VII of the Constitution on the Union's finances. This was a compromise which was mulled over at length, involving four working groups chaired by Mr Amato, Mr Hänsch, Mr Christophersen and Mr Méndez de Vigo. This compromise was based on three key ideas, which have been this Parliament’s banner over the last ten years: achieving greater democracy, achieving greater efficiency and achieving greater transparency. That compromise was also based on two ideas: the first was that, with regard to revenue, the governments should have the final word, since, at the end of the day, it is provided by the citizens of the Union; and secondly, with regard to spending, the European Parliament should have the final word, since it represents those same Union citizens. Consequently, on the basis of the work of these four working groups, we proposed this compromise with three legs; the first one relates to own resources: own resources will be decided by the governments and subject to ratification by national parliaments; the second is the financial perspectives: the Inter-institutional Agreement is incorporated into the Constitution and they will be approved as from those of 2006 by a qualified majority in the Council and with the approval of the European Parliament; and, thirdly, the budget: Parliament will have the final word with regard to the spending chapter, the distinction, which has always seemed to us to be bizarre, between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure having disappeared, but this is an approval subject to brakes and obstacles, since in order to have the final word, this Parliament must have a majority of 3/5. By all this I mean, Mr President, that we are dealing with an agreement on three legs, and this Parliament  as my fellow Members well know  naturally believes that ratification by national parliaments of own resources is something which belongs to the past and also that the multi-annual financial framework should be something subject to the ordinary legislative procedure. This means that we, for the sake of compromise, have given ground because we believed that the principle according to which ‘the governments have the final word on revenue and Parliament has the final word on spending’ makes sense. I would like to make it very clear that this Parliament has given ground for the sake of compromise and, therefore, I believe that at the moment the fact that this compromise, which is one of the key elements of the constitutional text, should be called into question and there should be an attempt to blur some of the elements of these three legs, makes no sense. So much so that I believe that, from this Parliament’s political point of view, and I would like to make this very clear, it will be totally unacceptable. It will be a red line for us. And we said this at the last meeting of the Intergovernmental Conference, and it has been accepted by the Italian Presidency as well and, while I was preparing this speech, Mr President, I received a note from the Ansa agency in which Mr Tremonti, President-in-Office of ECOFIN, says, and I will read in Italian: [We believe it is essential that the text prepared by the Convention should be approved just as it is]. Well, let us take notice of Mr Tremonti and let us maintain the compromise on the issue of finances. Mr President, please allow me to congratulate you on the award of the Charlemagne Prize, which is also good news for this Parliament; a Parliament which, since 1984, has wanted a Constitution, through the Spinelli Treaty, then through the Herman, Oreja and Colombo projects which called for the establishment of the Convention in 1997 and which, after Nice, opted for the Convention. That is why there is a touch of melancholy in the air today. What I mean is that, although this contradicts the philosopher, this melancholy is not the result of pointless efforts. The Convention’s efforts have not been pointless, because – and I firmly believe this – this Constitution is necessary for the enlarged Europe and there is no alternative. Since the European Parliament – as the poet would say – has yet to speak, we must now consider how we are going to act in the future. Firstly, we must recover our common sense, and there are a series of things we must not do: we must not talk about dividing Europe, about dividing ourselves, the Europeanists, up; we must not talk about founding countries, about pioneer or vanguard countries, as if to reproach those countries which do not seem up to the job; and, at this time, nor should we send letters to the President of the Commission telling him to reduce the budget to 1% of GDP. We must recover our common sense. We must consolidate the constitutional . You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have said that 82 solution measures have been proposed. Tell this House whether this is the case and, if it is, they must be consolidated. Let us consolidate them under the Irish Presidency and, before 1 May 2004, let us resolve the outstanding institutional issues and let us go into the elections of 13 June asking the Europeans to vote for this Constitution. – Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that you will leave this meeting happy because we are telling you that you are entering the final exam at Gothenburg well prepared. I believe that today Parliament has recognised the efforts of the Swedish Presidency, and yours in particular, to carry out successful work. And I also want to acknowledge this. I believe that you have acted with political care. For example, on the agreement on the memorandum on the cohesion funds you acted quickly, and that is positive, because Europe is not a Europe of traders, but a Europe of cohesion and of the common principles and values which we all share. And I also believe that in the same way there has been a change in the Swedish Presidency in the latest preparatory documents on an issue which is of great concern to this Parliament; the convention. I believe that between the outset and today there has been a change, and that is that you have understood that the next Intergovernmental Conference should be prepared in such a way as to prevent what happened with the Treaty of Nice, and I believe that the convention model is showing the way: this models means participation, openness and transparency, all characteristics which you have a particular interest in. I would like to ask you now to show a little more daring – as a French revolutionary would say, [what we need is to dare, still to dare, and always to dare]. You will notice that I am next to François Bayrou and I have been imbued with these revolutionary ideas. Be more daring, opt for the convention, because I believe that that is the lesson we must learn from the Irish referendum. We must count on the people, listen to them, hear them, and the convention is a useful method for doing this. I therefore urge you to continue in this direction, which the President of my Group, Mr Poettering, has argued for, and to come back from Gothenburg with the good news that that convention has been launched to assess the future of Europe. – Mr President, an initial observation: there is one Member who sits on these benches and who speaks a language which is not his own. He could surely do with some English lessons, so that at least somebody may understand him. But what I wanted to refer to, Mr President, was the issue which Mr Barón Crespo, President of the Socialist Group, mentioned, in other words, the event of the seventh. We have seen today that the Council has taken a unilateral decision to organise an event to launch the debate on the future of the European Union on the seventh. And it has done so, as we have seen today, without the knowledge of the President of the Commission, and taking his name in vain. The President said that she was going to consider the issue, and I believe that, in view of what has been heard here, it would be better if the European Parliament did not attend that event, which is nothing more than a marketing stunt, and I would also ask the Commission not to attend. If we wish to debate the future of the European Union – that great public debate which must take place – we must do so from the outset on the basis of a consensus between the three institutions. – Mr President, I wish firstly, as other previous speakers have done, to congratulate President Prodi on his speech. The applause that rounded it off clearly demonstrates that when there is a specific political objective, this Parliament can be relied upon to support it. I would also like to congratulate Mr Moscovici. Mr Moscovici brilliantly presented the issue which I am going to focus on, and nobody will be surprised that I am going to focus on the question of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. His intervention was wonderful up until the final minute when I did not understand what he was saying. Why do I say that he gave an extraordinary speech? Because he acknowledged something which we are all satisfied with. The Convention method has worked and the truth is that it has been something of a miracle. I am not so surprised, but some of you will say that a Christian Democrat who does not believe in miracles is not a good Christian Democrat. Therefore, I do believe in miracles and the convention has been a miracle. Personal representatives of the governments, MEPs and national MPs, together with the Commission, reaching an agreement on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in ten months, seemed an impossible objective. We have done so, however, and I believe this is wonderful news for the European Union. It is wonderful that today we are celebrating the tenth anniversary of German unification and it is wonderful that we are today just a few years away from a great enlargement of the Union. The method has therefore worked, and so has the content of the Charter. Mr Moscovici has said so very expressively. The content of the Charter is good. At the Feira European Council, President Guterres told us: "Do not worry about the legal value. Concentrate on the content of the Charter. Create a good Charter ". We have done so. I have not read any criticisms of the content of the Charter. Previous speakers have spoken well of the Charter because it is a good Charter which brings together the classic rights of the nineteenth Century and the modern rights of the twenty-first century. It is a Charter for the citizens, who have participated actively in its creation. It has been said here that this has been a virtual reality Charter. We now have a situation where, having created a Charter with good content and by means of an original method – and here I am reaching the last part of Mr Moscovici’s speech – we are now told that we are going to announce it and then wait and see what happens in the future. The argument of the President-in-Office of the Council is that there is a risk that the Charter will not be accepted by all the Member States as legally binding. That is a risk, it is true. But I believe things are changing, Mr Moscovici. I believe that at the beginning many governments had serious doubts, but now they have changed their minds. There are some – the Spanish Government has said this very clearly recently – who are in favour of incorporating the Charter into the Treaties. However, even if what you say is true, and there are some governments who do not want it incorporated into the Treaties, I must say very clearly that the citizens of Europe and the Members of this Parliament have the right to know who those governments are. We have the right to know. We must be told who does not want the Charter in the Treaties. Mr President of the Council, I therefore encourage you to continue the aims of a predecessor of yours in another convention and the French Presidency should have [boldness, again boldness and ever boldness]. – Mr President, if any of the guests in the galleries who are with us today had attended the debate that took place in this House in March, they would not understand a thing, because today the benches of the Left have piled on the criticisms of the Barcelona process when in March, on assessing that Council, we voted for an extremely favourable Resolution. I would like to remind certain people that we cannot go against our own acts and that what was good three months ago cannot be bad now. My second point is the issue of immigration. I believe that this Presidency has given a fine example of something very important in politics, which is what in sporting terms is known as suppleness. Immigration was not one of the Spanish Presidency’s priorities, but it has noted that it is now one of the citizens’ priorities, and it has incorporated it into its agenda. And furthermore it is true that there are many issues that have been paralysed for some time in the Council. I believe that instead of criticising that incorporation, we should have applauded the attempt to promote all these issues. There is a final question, however, which was mentioned by President Poettering, which I believe to be extremely important and which has not perhaps been discussed so much, which is the delay in enlargement. For a long time, led by this Parliament, we have been asking for enlargement to take place within specific time limits and now, all of a sudden, certain Member States, certain leaders of Member States, want to carry out certain modifications of the common agricultural policy, for example, which will make enlargement impossible within those limits. Therefore, within the constructive environment of this House, I would ask our friends on the Left to speak to Mr Schröder, to Mr Persson and to Mr Blair to see if we can prevent the hindering of enlargement, so that it can go ahead when we want. – Mr President, what must the next Intergovernmental Conference do? It must prepare the Union for a Europe of 27 Member States. Therefore, the wider the scope of institutional reform, the wider the scope of enlargement will be. What must it do? It must maintain the institutional equilibrium, which has allowed the advance of European construction over the last forty years. What must it mean? It must not mean new competences for the European Union. The Treaty of Amsterdam did this already. And neither should it mean changing the nature of the Union. In this context, I wish to say that the report carried out by Mr Dehaene is very correct in many areas, but it contains something that worries me very considerably. If we consider it in its entirety, Mr Dehaene’s report intends, on the one hand, to extend qualified majority voting and, at the same time, the constitutionalisation of the Treaties and their division into two parts, one subject to a very strict procedure, which requires unanimity for reform, and the other subject to majority voting. And to this add making strengthened cooperation more flexible. What worries me – I address this to the Commission, which has to carry out a report on it – is that the combination of these three factors – the extension of the qualified majority, the subjecting of legislation to differing types of revisions and making strengthened cooperation more flexible – leads to a Europe a Europe where every Member State chooses what it wants to be. And I wish to say, Mr President, that that is not the European Union which many of us have fought for and in which many of us believe. – Mr President, being the penultimate speaker – Commissioner Vitorino has the honour of closing the debate – exempts me from expressing many considerations which have been expressed by previous speakers, and they have done so very well. I am only going to make two points. One of them is addressed to those Members who have said that what we are voting on today, this arrest warrant, replaces extradition; that is not the case at all; it accompanies extradition for certain crimes which are particularly odious, such as a terrorist crime, precisely so that the European Union may become more efficient. And I am going to make my second point, Mr President. I believe that if we look back to 1992 when this Parliament voted in favour of the Maastricht Treaty, we will see that there were considerable gaps in the issues of justice and internal affairs within the third pillar. It was a great innovation that the European Union was going to deal with issues which had always been at the heart of the Member States. Very little time has passed since then, practically seven years, since Maastricht entered into force, and nevertheless, what progress has been made! Progress has not just been made in terms of European solidarity on a specific problem, the terrorism of ETA, which is extraordinarily important and which is of fundamental importance politically; but progress has also been made in the construction of Europe. This is the way to move forward together in Europe and to deal with the real concerns of the citizens, as has been said here. Therefore, as well as expressing gratitude for European solidarity, I would like to say that this Watson report – and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has made great efforts – also represents a very important milestone on this journey which we, including all of us here in this European Parliament, are making together in the construction of Europe. –  Mr President, on seeing the stars on the European flag, I believe that some people have mistaken our forum and have come here to make narrow-minded statements. I am not going to get involved in that debate because this is a place for talking about Europe. And we have come here to discuss a programme that combines ambition with vision. I am therefore very pleased, Mr President, that we are dealing here with a six-month programme during which, as most Members have pointed out, much is going to be done and many initiatives are going to be taken. It is true that the tradition of Parliament is to demand that the Presidency-in-Office get things done. But I also believe that, in compensation for the many things that have been demanded today, this Parliament must make a commitment to doing something which seems to me extraordinarily important: the Barcelona process is going to be a key element of the Presidency. The Barcelona process is necessary in order to complete the process started in Lisbon and you have said, Mr President, that there is no better means of achieving social integration than creating employment. We must send a clear signal, at a time when the European economy is delicate, that the European Union is prepared to make this effort and, therefore, this Parliament and this political group commit ourselves to approving, next week in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the report by Mr von Wogau so that we may implement the measures contained in the Lamfalussy report, which I believe will send a clear message to the markets that we are willing to reach an agreement – and I am glad that you are here, Mr Prodi, since the Commission has much to say on this issue – a fair agreement, which respects the balance of the institutions, to liberalise that market. From this point of view, the European Parliament will add to the good initiatives of a Presidency which has ambition and vision. Mr President, I believe I am the only speaker who has not used up his speaking time. – Mr President, there is an expression in my language ‘to take French leave,’ which is what the President-in-Office has done, leaving without saying goodbye. Therefore, my first words should be to thank Mr Prodi, who has stayed. The Commission is showing that it is interested in the debate in this Parliament. As far as the Treaty of Nice is concerned, we can say very little, because we do not yet have the conclusions of the European Council, and therefore, until we see them, we cannot add much. I think there are two matters in which the European Parliament plays an important role. The first is the Charter of Fundamental Rights. The Charter has been proclaimed and that is a good thing. But it has neither been incorporated into the Treaties, nor has a reference to the Charter been put in Paragraph 2 of Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union. And, above all, I have the feeling that the proclamation was not a solemn one. It was a proclamation on the quiet. I would therefore like to thank our President, Mrs Fontaine, and President Prodi for what they have said: for the European Parliament and the Commission, the Charter is law from now onwards, and it is going to have an effect from now onwards. I think that this is positive. The other point from Nice on which Parliament will judge Nice is the extension of qualified majority voting and Parliament’s codecision. On this subject – from what I have been able to hear here this morning – the news is vague and does not seem to be very promising. We will have to wait before we can establish what Parliament’s opinion is. I remember that when Dimitris Tsatsos and I drew up the report on the Treaty of Amsterdam, we talked about Ortega y Gasset, who said, quoting old Cervantes, that often you have to choose between staying at an inn or continuing with the journey. Nice is the road to two important things, one of which is enlargement. Enlargement is going to take place – now we know it. This is also the case for the euro. I think that a collapse at Nice would have been a punch below the belt for the euro. Therefore, perhaps in this Parliament we are in a paradoxical situation that is completely different to Amsterdam. Perhaps, for this Parliament the European Council of Nice has not been positive, as it was in Amsterdam. But perhaps, for the European Union, the European Council of Nice is opening up the way for hope and for the future. We will see, Mr President, when we read the conclusions. Until then, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats reserves judgement on what its position will be. – Mr President, this is an important issue, as Commissioner Barnier has pointed out, since the European Convention is going to hold a debate on this issue on 6 and 7 February. This report must therefore form the basis of that debate. I would like to congratulate the Chairman, Mr Napolitano, on the good sense, which is the least common of the senses, of his proposal. Mr President, in this case you have done justice to your talent and reputation. This resolution is clearly regionalist, because what we are asking the Convention is that it recognise the objective of territorial cohesion in Article 2; because we are asking for recognition of regional and local autonomy in Article 6; because we are asking for inclusion of linguistic diversity in Europe and the protection of minority languages in Article 151; because we are asking for recognition of cross-border cooperation in Article 158; because we are asking that the Committee of the Regions, within the context of subsidiarity, should be able to bring cases before the Court of Justice – in this regard we cooperate with the working group on subsidiarity which it is my honour to chair in the Convention; finally, because in paragraph 2 of Article 299 we ask for the situation of the outermost regions to be consolidated. You may ask me, why has the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats voted by a majority against in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, if it is so positive? Well, I will tell you; because there are two issues which concern us and we believe that they have not been properly resolved in committee: The first issue is Recital 2, into which an amendment was introduced empowering regional and local authorities to adapt the way in which they apply the legislation of the European Union, in order to take account, it says, of exceptional local circumstances and needs. I know that it then adds a paragraph saying 'while respecting the integrity of EU law', but I believe that, as it stands, this paragraph is detrimental to the common internal market and that led the Group of the European People’s Party, which has always defended the four freedoms of the internal market, to vote against. We have therefore presented an amendment, No 21 – I believe we have reached an agreement with the Socialists – to bring together our Amendment No 21 with the Socialist No 5 in a compromise amendment, which I believe takes us in the right direction. Finally, another issue which concerns us, Mr President, is the current wording of Article 8, which, along the same lines mentioned by Commissioner Barnier, grants all regional and local corporations with legislative powers the right to bring cases before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. We believe this is over the top, we believe this is not the way to build Europe, and we have therefore presented an amendment, No 24, which allows the regions, under the authority of the State, to defend its prerogatives before the Court in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. We would ask the Members to examine these amendments, and if we reach an agreement on them, the Group of the European People’s Party, in accordance with the reasoning we have given, will be able to vote in favour of this extremely important report on which it is my honour to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Napolitano. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, each year, at the beginning of the budgetary procedure, we face the challenge of responding to a public which is justifiably concerned and to the challenge of discovering whether we are capable of achieving a serious and effective balance in order to guide the next budget in such a way that taxpayers will know on what, how and why the European Union is going to spend their money. I would firstly like to express my satisfaction at the excellent work of the general rapporteur, Mr Carlos Costa Neves, and to congratulate and wish Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Colom every success so that they can reach the agreement we all need as soon as possible. All of us are concerned, and with good reason, not only about achieving a financial regulation which meets the legitimate demands of this Parliament, but also about the Union’s political will to deal with the phenomenon of illegal immigration. I am grateful that Mr Costa Neves has had the political sensitivity to lend budgetary support to this priority. I would ask the Commission and the Council to show the same concern and sensitivity, which must be translated into programmes in favour of true integration, into effective support for the regions of origin and into the creation of a common immigration policy which will support and facilitate the work of the Member States in this area. Although immigration, the repercussions of enlargement on agricultural spending, the animal health crisis and consumer protection generate disquiet and concern throughout the Union, the sectoral problems must also be responded to within these budgetary guidelines. I would ask for solidarity for the fisheries sectors in Spain and Portugal. Thousands of workers and hundreds of vessels are waiting for compliance with the safeguard clause laid down at the European Council in Nice in relation to aid for the restructuring of the Community fleet which has been unable to work. Given Morocco’s clearly hostile response throughout the negotiation process, the European Union must respond effectively and with solidarity. –  Mr President, this proposal for a Council decision with a view to extending, for the first time, the Community guarantee for the European Investment Bank undoubtedly has a truly extraordinary scope. Before commenting specifically on the issues raised by this proposal for a decision, I should like to express our support for it, since it endorses Parliament’s position on relations between the European Union and Croatia. For this very reason, I wish to state from the outset that I share the concerns expressed by the rapporteur a few minutes ago on the situation of the loan guarantee reserve, whose narrow margin could cause problems should any unforeseen events occur. There is one decision that must be put in a dual context. We should consider Croatia’s situation firstly from a strictly political point of view. We must welcome the new political direction that is being taken there, following the legislative and presidential elections. The European Union must encourage Croatia to remain firmly grounded in democracy and the rule of law and there is no doubt that this encouragement must be translated into action involving financial support to improve the economic situation there and to enable the Croatian people to make the necessary sacrifices to balance out the fundamental deficits in their public accounts. The EIB can and must play a leading role in the region, but this powerful financial instrument serving the external policy of the Union, whose activities, in accordance with the mandate provided by the 1999 decision, cover more than sixty countries, must match its actions to those of the Commission. It must also be made clear that the Commission cannot distance itself from the recent agreement that was reached in the tripartite dialogue in July, when a commitment was given to the effect that every new proposal’s compatibility with existing financial programming must be substantiated in the financial statement. From the operational point of view, I believe that both the loan guarantee reserve that has been provided for in the current financial perspective, and the functioning of the Guarantee Fund require an improvement in the mechanisms for achieving the objectives of quality and efficiency in Union loans that are given budgetary guarantees. In this sense, the rapporteur’s analysis strikes me as being an admirable starting point. It does not seek to cast doubt on the budgetary protection plan nor on the role of the EIB. The Interinstitutional Agreement provides for a series of three-part dialogues to take place within the budgetary procedure. Given this context and bearing in mind the narrow margin of the loan guarantee reserve, which is set at EUR 200 million per year, there is no reason why we should not discuss the priority uses of this margin in coming years. Our aim is clearly to improve the efficiency of the European Investment Bank. In order to achieve this, the Commission must ensure that the most thorough assessment possible of its activities will be carried out. We cannot content ourselves with saying that we have a reliable system of guarantees. In the budgetary procedure for 2001, our political group has maintained a strategy of pursuing a marked improvement in the quality of expenditure and an improvement in the mechanisms for monitoring its performance. It is time to call for the same objectives with regard to the activities of the EIB. What is clear is that Parliament cannot restrict its role to passively assimilating the information supplied to it by the Commission and the EIB, or to giving its blessing to the decisions of the Council. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to be very brief, but first I would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs. The basic consensus with which they have worked is something to be greatly welcomed and is very encouraging. The debate, as we have seen, is not so much about the principles, objectives and timeliness of the reform as about the procedures, pace, timetable, and possible shortcomings or unwanted consequences of its implementation. This is a necessary reform because at the root of it was a real political crisis, not just the normal self-criticism which occurs in the course of an administration that has been in action for several decades. However, what we are dealing with here is not a political reform with administrative consequences but an administrative reform with political consequences. We are therefore dealing with one of those challenges that are occasionally faced by politicians who must find the best way to safeguard the governability of institutions, as well as the best way to provide the citizens with a good administration. The success of the reform will be a success for all of us and we all have a great deal at stake here. This being the case, it seems to me not only appropriate but also necessary to explore all the possibilities offered by interinstitutional dialogue. This dialogue must open up the basic legislative framework of Community finances to the codecision procedure. This dialogue must allow the establishment of common mechanisms in human resources policies. It must yield fruit in terms of multiannual budgetary agreements, within the framework of the Financial Perspectives and, finally, it must allow us to work jointly on the monitoring and control of the reform. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the European public is not so much interested in our plans, in the sense of the material design of the reform, as in the intentions, that is to say, its objectives and consequences. The public is going to judge us according to the degree of transparency, closeness in the decision-making responsibilities, coherence in the distribution of responsibilities, and according to the efficiency which is finally achieved. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would briefly like to say that if we want to provide citizens with good and efficient management of the Union’s resources, it would seem sensible to take advantage of the experience we have gained over the years with the financial framework in force. What lessons can we draw from this, ladies and gentlemen? That we cannot continue with methods that result in such a massive failure to implement funds. We could also talk about mistakes in provisions or shortcomings in implementation. The truth is that we are talking about the consequences of a structural fault, as our colleague Mr Podestà so rightly said. Year after year our Group places an emphasis on reforming the working methods in order to achieve greater efficiency, transparency and flexibility in budgetary policies, because that is, to a large extent, what is required for citizens to have confidence in the European plan. Therefore, when we see public debates on financial balances, we know that something is being done wrong. Parliament has also shown that it wants and demands a European administration fit for the twenty-first century but, at the same time, we demand efficiency, monitoring and transparency. The budget for next year faces old and new problems that we have to solve, and solving those old and new problems requires, above all, that we use common sense in our decisions. Restricting spending is common sense, as is demanding that the Council curb the increase in administrative costs. It is also common sense that, if we advocate Community agricultural and fisheries policies, financial decisions should comply with the true meaning of those words and that the institutions should honour their commitments. Therefore, the budget for 2003 should fund the second stage of restructuring the Community fleet affected by the expired fisheries agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that there is room for negotiation and consensus, and I hope that, for the benefit of all, a good result will be achieved in the next round of negotiations. In order to do this, all we need to do is to be guided by common sense. –  Madam President, the financial and budgetary consequences of enlargement must be debated in the light of the fact that we are facing a moral imperative and an inalienable political priority, because this project of living together goes beyond the fields of business and finance. The difficulties do not come from the Spanish Presidency or from the Commission or from this Parliament. The Spanish Presidency has kept to the road map and is making every effort to unblock the unsettled matter of agriculture and to leave the timetable clear, in order to comply with the timescale proposed in Gothenburg. As has been pointed out, the countries that put obstacles in the way of a consensus to adopt a common position will have to explain why enlargement should take place not according to the established timetable but at a speed dictated by their interests. At these times, we must clear away doubts and help change a negative attitude, which is strongest in those countries which, right now, are blocking agreement in the chapter on agriculture and calling into question direct aids for agriculture, either through attempting to clear the financial horizon beyond 2006 or by questioning their inclusion in the Community acquis. The proposal which Parliament supports, following the Commission’s line, and which is contained in the Böge report, is balanced, complies with the acquis and is compatible with the budget ceilings set in Berlin. It includes highly positive aspects, such as support for the phasing-in model for including the new Member States in direct aid payments, remembering that they form part of the acquis, and the phasing-in of the structural operations, but this must be compatible with an effective absorption capacity of the new Member States. A few years ago, Madam President, the Eastern European countries were totalitarian dictatorships with planned economies. The changes that have taken place are so profound that we cannot allow ourselves to paralyse this march towards freedom just because some wish to ensure a reduction in their contribution to the Community coffers after 2006. – Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that the debate does not concern either the Commission’s final objectives or its principles in relation to this proposal, but rather the possible unwanted consequences which may result from the application of the future regulation of the sector. Therefore, given the removal of the localisation clause, I would ask you, Commissioner, whether you think there should be a transitional period for small distribution companies, bearing in mind the investments made or under way in this sector, which have a great influence on the level of employment. Mr President, the excellent Torres Marques report marks the end of a debate which started 10 months ago. Fortunately, the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament are in agreement about ratifying the timetable for the introduction of the euro agreed at the Madrid European Council of 1995. This consensus demonstrates that careful management of the various periods is the key to the success of the operation. Our efforts must be concentrated on ensuring that this transition goes smoothly. Our role is to protect the interests of the people, particularly those who are disadvantaged. Respect for the timetable will provide the time needed for the information to reach everyone and may also allow the dual circulation period to be reduced. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs maintains that this period should not exceed two months. The ECB, the Commission and the national authorities will therefore have to adopt a series of measures, some of which have already been mentioned. For example, they will have to provide consumers, traders and banks with the necessary quantity of coins and notes before 1 January 2002. They will have to ensure that dual price display is in general use for 1 January 2001. They will have to use this process to modernise our payment systems and they will have to adopt the necessary measures to ensure adequate legal protection against fraud. If the euro is to bring greater freedom to individuals and companies and increased rationality in their decision making, they must previously have become familiar with the new system. In this respect, the recommendations on communication and information policies contained in the Torres Marques report have a vital role to play. However, we should not imagine that the euro will perfect the single market or that it will allow, for example, easier price comparison or a reduction in transaction costs. The benefits of the euro must be more than just material for they must help to strengthen the political union. – I am grateful for the Council’s reply since it demonstrates that the Council cannot violate the principle of institutional autonomy by which we are governed. Secondly, I would like to point out that Spain has been a Member of the European Union since 1986 and since then this institutional framework has been respected. And also throughout the period of Socialist government. Thirdly, I will say that there are no homogenous positions in relation to this debate, even in the academic field, in the views that the different Autonomous Communities advocate. Therefore, I would like to ask you whether you think that it would be more fruitful to improve the role of the Committee of the Regions in the Union’s work. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to jointly debate the system of own resources and the next budget at the point of conciliation reinforces the idea that income and expenditure are two sides of the same coin. There have been calls here for fiscal autonomy and codecision for income and expenditure, but first we must achieve suitable and fair funding of Community policies and we already know that there are differing opinions about the most efficient system for achieving it. Sooner or later we will have to reach a permanent agreement, but first we will have to debate and clarify the issues selected at the Nice Council. It seems a pointless exercise to talk about a new philosophy for own resources without having cleared up the fundamental unknown factors first. It is not very prudent to begin building a house from the roof. In any event, to use the argument of the issue of net balances – as has been done – does not move in the right direction, but, for many reasons, contributes to undermining the principles of the Union. The question today is whether the new decision on own resources effectively makes progress towards greater equity and transparency and takes more account of the Member States’ tax capacity. It is clear that the gradual reduction of the maximum reference rate for the VAT resource contributes to correcting the regressive aspects of the system in force. The Member States’ contributions via the fourth resource or VAT must be proportionate with their contribution to the Community GDP as a key element of safeguarding the equity of the system. Therefore we must keep up our efforts in this direction. The proposal also has some negative aspects, which are far from negligible. The maintenance, albeit with a modification of the calculation system, of the so-called correction of budgetary imbalances in favour of the United Kingdom, confirms that this procedure is totally contrary to the desired transparency and simplicity. With regard to the 2002 budget, I would like to point out that the Costa Neves report – and I congratulate the rapporteur on his work – provides the necessary elements for a good negotiation. I believe that there is a margin for reaching final agreements with the Council. I would ask the Commission to fulfil its commitment to propose a suitable instrument and funding to deal with the failure of the fishing agreement with Morocco, which also means that the aid can be used in projects for alternative economic activity in the regions affected. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2003 the current period of the financial perspectives will reach its half-way point. This is the first budgetary procedure which deals successfully with the consequences of enlargement in terms of administrative spending. In my view, this is a good departure point for dealing with future difficulties. It is fair to point out that the efforts to reach an agreement in the July conciliation were successful and will allow us to vote in favour of the 2003 budget tomorrow. It goes without saying, therefore, that I warmly congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr Färm and Mr Stenmarck, and the chairman of our Committee on Budgets. The series of commitments achieved during the conciliation, and enshrined in the declarations, demonstrates a clear advance for Parliament in decision-making with budgetary consequences and an advance in terms of ensuring better control of budgetary implementation and outstanding commitments. There has been mention here of an issue which is of great importance to my country: resolving the second stage of the funding of the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleets in view of their inability to fish in Moroccan waters. I would like to say sincerely to my colleague Mrs Dührkop Dührkop that we share her objectives, but not the methods or comments we have just heard here. I believe that this is a good example of interinstitutional cooperation. Both the Commission and Parliament and the Council have reached an agreement and I believe that at this time when regions such as Galicia are suffering the consequences of an extraordinary disaster, the fact that our institutions are showing their sensitivity and solidarity is a positive thing which we can communicate to the citizens. I must also say that once again the revenue for the next financial year will allocate a significant amount through the surpluses of the previous year. This situation, which reveals a chronic under-use of payments in certain areas, must come to an end. I would like to say to the Council that it cannot ignore or diminish the political priorities of Parliament and that the loss of appropriations must not be repeated, as is going to happen with the Community funding for Europol for certain actions in the fight against terrorism, simply because the Council does not want to be subject to the control of this House. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is clear that, in the medium term, the budgetary landscape is full of uncertainties which are of concern to hundreds of thousands of citizens. To date, half of the Council does not accept the Commission’s proposals on the future CAP nor has there been any clarification of the funding of the reform of the fisheries policy whatsoever. In the conciliation in July some problems were cleared up, but some very important issues were left open. As has already been said, this Parliament – and my group in particular – has maintained that there is a need for a reform of the Commission which is in line with the ambitions of the European citizens of the twenty-first century. It has done so and will do so not through speeches, but through committed decisions and, therefore, in previous years it has provided the Commission with the posts it had requested. For next year new posts have been requested for the purposes of preparing for enlargement, which is an objective which nobody calls into question. But it is also a legitimate and unquestionable objective to have precise information on the real progress made and data which confirms that we have a more efficient and transparent administration which is more guaranteed to be able to confront the future challenges. The difficulties in the funding of external actions, covered by heading 4, have become standard during every budgetary procedure. I am not going to talk about figures, but I want fundamental principles to be respected. Firstly, that throughout this period we maintain the principle of geographical balance in the annual allocation of resources and respect the political priorities of this Parliament. Secondly, that the Council abandon this pernicious double-speak of making commitments in word without adding new resources. And, thirdly, that the Commission provide regulatory instruments which guarantee genuine equality in the conditions for implementing expenditure. With regard to the shared concern to solve the problem of the outstanding commitments, essentially the abnormal RALs, I would like to ask a question: does the Commissioner believe that the cut by the Council of EUR 500 million in payment appropriations is compatible with its execution objectives for next year? –  Mr President, Commissioner, the amending budget we are debating today, practically in private, reveals, as has been stated, a disease endemic throughout the execution of payment appropriations, because, given the amount in question, we are not talking about an exception, but the rule. The 2000 settlement presented a surplus in the payment forecasts of some EUR 11 billion; that for 2001 could end up at around EUR 14 billion, a surplus that will, logically, lighten Member States’ contributions in years to come. Under these conditions, doubts are cast upon these procedures and their legitimate use is undermined. These imbalances are largely concentrated in category 2. We already know that the first few years of the implementation of regional and cohesion policy, the programming phase, takes up a great deal of time, resources and energy. Suffice it to say that the approval of the Community Support Framework for objective 1 regions took place in October 2000, with regard to Spain, and this decision is the prerequisite for cofinancing. The results of the 2001 consumption of payments, under this heading, produces some worrying information. The rate of implementation dropped 10 points in relation to the previous year and, with regard to the total intended for objective 1 regions, it dropped 6 points. The final result is therefore a considerable increase in the RAL. The current regulations of the Structural Funds should, therefore, be analysed in the light of this. Faced with enlargement, it should be improved to allow better financial management of the programmes for obvious reasons: because regional policy is at the heart of the European project and is fundamental for the progress of the integration process, and because it is a key instrument that enjoys the widest consensus. Similar problems, but involving lower figures, arise in headings 3 and 4: consumption of payments in external actions in 2001 also dropped 5 points in relation to the previous year – to be specific, initiatives promoting democracy and human rights only reached 56% of the anticipated payments. I believe, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that Parliament’s amendments have no other purpose than to temporarily slow down a saving that, to a large extent, is of a transitory nature for the Member States and does not aim to hinder the management of financial flows in Member States, but to remedy a situation that is neither politically nor financially reasonable. Firstly, the Commission should improve its working systems both in the preparatory phase and in the execution phase. In this regard, the difficulties in payments anticipated for 2003 should be resolved satisfactorily. Secondly, the Council should understand that Parliament exercises its competencies as budgetary authority with all that this implies and that this modified amending budget means that, even when, with regard to own resources, Parliament is not on an equal footing with the Council, in this and in other areas that are currently being discussed, what citizens are asking for is a stable institutional balance and a dialogue which obtains practical results, because there are no other alternatives that would produce improved benefits for all. – Madam President, Commissioner, representatives of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to congratulate the general rapporteur, Mr Mulder, and the rapporteur, Mrs Gill, on the excellent work they have done. I am convinced that the 2004 budget is going to contribute to the success of the Union’s most crucial enlargement and, despite what we have heard here this afternoon, I also maintain the hope – because that is the last thing we lose – that in terms of the budget we will reconcile the profound differences we have suffered in relation to the action in Iraq. I would like to say something on another fundamental issue, however: immigration. Immigration is no longer a national issue, and has become a European issue, including the most dramatic aspects of it. It is essential to dedicate more resources to this political priority. We need to improve border control, combat illegal immigration effectively, which leaves victims on our coasts almost every day, and we need countries of origin and transit to manage migratory flows effectively while respecting human rights. We therefore unreservedly support the increase in resources for programmes such as ARGOand we welcome the new programme of financial and technical aid to third countries in this field. Madam President, I believe it is very appropriate in this debate to stress, as other Members have done, that the 2004 budget creates a line intended to introduce elements of European solidarity into assistance for the victims of terrorism. This pilot project recognises in a special manner this group of European citizens and sends the political message that the Union is listening to them and is showing solidarity from a budgetary point of view as well. Finally, Madam President, the draft 2004 budget takes the Council's traditional approach of austerity and expenditure control. We agree that this budgetary policy must contribute to healthy and stable growth. Only if we are rigorous, if we opt for quality spending and the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, will we reduce the gap between us and our most direct competitor, the United States. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I join in congratulating all the rapporteurs. It is only right to highlight the efforts that the general rapporteur, Mrs Haug, has made in seeking an intelligent consensus, which I hope will not be frustrated. But I would like to focus my comments on the ECSC operating budget, which needs to be examined in the light of the fact that we are on the threshold of the expiry of the Treaty. Its final amount is modest and correct. Our group relates the strategy for the general budget to the quality of spending and efficient management, and this also extends to the ECSC budget. I share the concerns and opinions that the rapporteur, Mrs Rühle, mentioned this afternoon regarding the sections on research and social measures. But what is also important is to insist that the allocations are used correctly. A sector such as steel, thanks to technological research and development, has ceased to be an industry that only generates basic products and has become one that puts semi-processed products on the market with added value. Therefore, sustaining and increasing research programmes in that sector is a key issue today, with the ECSC instruments, and in the future, when they disappear. On the other hand, it is important for the peace of mind of thousands of workers, and compatible with the overall amount planned, that the level of aid planned for this financial year for the social chapter for coal should be maintained. The ECSC operative budget for 2001 does not move away substantially from the line taken in recent years. It therefore takes on the same faults. You only have to look at the amount entered coming from commitments that have not been implemented. This is not very serious with the expiry of the Treaty very close on the horizon, but it would be worrying if the post-ECSC legal framework maintained the possibility of prolonging such practices. We are therefore paying close attention to the proposal for a decision on the financial consequences of the expiry of the Treaty. The Commission will have to look at a transparent mechanism so that the European financial institutions can, at the correct time, evaluate what is remaining from the ECSC and be protected from any possible failures to pay by debtors and so that, through a system of public competition, maximum profitability can be achieved. – Mr President, I believe that the administrative cooperation programmes within the immigration policies and connected areas are of great importance. Today we are debating the ARGO programme, the ultimate aim of which is to provide a guarantee of homogenous treatment for third-country nationals. I would like to point out that, in the fields fully or partially covered by this programme, there are very many directives, regulations and other instruments in force, and that this Community acquis must be applied consistently, guaranteeing equal rights to third-country nationals. There are some extremely important aspects which the programme should take into account: it is essential that we implement actions to prevent illegal immigration, actions against the counterfeiting of documents and essential actions in the field of consular cooperation. The objective of establishing a common policy in this area is a great challenge and its success largely depends on the Union becoming an area of security and freedom. In a few years, my country has gone from a country of emigration to a country receiving a large number of immigrants and at the same time is experiencing problems resulting from its status as an external border of the Union. Although it is not an innovation – since it continues the previous Odysseus programme, with certain new approaches – the ARGO programme is a key element. An increase in appropriations is a sign that we are taking a serious approach to the effort we must make to ensure that the national administrations act homogeneously, applying best practices. I agree with the approach of the rapporteur, Mr Oostlander, and I congratulate him, because his report contains proposals which improve the text and make it very clear that the Commission and Parliament must play a leading role in the implementation of the programme. Mr President, much has been achieved in this field under Commissioner Vitorino, but there is still a very long way to go. It is therefore right and proper that the objectives of the current Presidency include making progress with the Tampere and Laeken commitments on asylum, immigration and border control policies. This requirement does not only stem from the present reality of immigration in the Union, but also from the citizens’ desire for a genuine political Union. – Mr President, as in previous years, this debate is characterised by two elements which we could describe as endemic. One relates to the general amounts and the other to the deficiencies in the rules on budgetary management. Our differences on each of the spending categories are clear and I am not going to go into the detail. Commissioner, representatives of the Council, we need the budget to be an effective and credible tool which works for employment, for research, for support for small businesses and for the construction of a genuine area of justice and security. Parliament has shown flexibility and austerity in this procedure and it is therefore in a position to ask the Council not to be politically autocratic and to show unequivocal signs that it is prepared to negotiate. I trust that you will take advantage of the flexibility demonstrated by our rapporteur, Carlos Costa, whose work – as well as the efforts of the other two rapporteurs, Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Seppänen – deserves to be congratulated. With regard to the resources intended for external Union action, we demand that this Parliament’s undeniable political objectives are guaranteed, and these include providing resources for areas which are essential to world balance, such as the Mediterranean and Latin America. In this procedure, the Commission proposes using the flexibility instrument to finance the restructuring of the Community fleets which fished in the area of the defunct fisheries agreement with Morocco. This decision is fair, technically correct and necessary. It deals with a very serious problem which affects employment and a key activity of many regions, and which arises in a context of crisis. We must remember that we are about to implement a new common fisheries policy which has been dogged by intolerable discrimination for decades when compared to other economic activities, from the point of view of internal market rules. As for budgetary management, this Parliament has repeatedly condemned the Commission’s inability to put an end to the problem of the so-called anomalous RAL. In this respect, we have produced a good strategy, which our rapporteur has mentioned, which is closely related to the reform of the Commission. We must bear in mind that in the last three financial years very high payments were not used. We must therefore find rules which work, methods which allow faster implementation and rules which shorten the cycle of projects. As the last speaker, I hope that the Commission and the Council obey the evangelical maxim when it comes to paying attention and that the last are put first, not only in the Kingdom of Heaven, but also here in Parliament. . To a large extent, the Union is gambling its future on the success or failure of a common immigration policy. It is a challenge and an opportunity. This programme, directed at countries in which immigration originates and transit countries in order to help them to manage migratory flows, is essential and deserves our support. The management of migratory flows affects the demography, the economic and social balance and the harmonious coexistence of the Community’s citizens. The common immigration policy must take this into account and ensure that Member States have margin for manoeuvre in terms of managing their migratory flows. The programme contributes to creating a common legal and administrative culture for the handling of the phenomenon of migration based on our principles and values of respect for people. That is the only way we can effectively combat marginalisation and the organised crime of human trafficking, which causes so many victims each year. We must strengthen European immigration policy through concrete actions: joint repatriations of illegal immigrants, the implementation of a European visa bank or the common management of external borders. The latter, with shared responsibility, must be extended to third countries, to the Union’s partners, by means of the including in Association Agreements a clause on cooperation in the field of immigration. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is right firstly to express my gratitude, as previous speakers have done, for the work of Mrs Buitenweg, of the chairman of our committee and, especially, Mr Costa Neves. The Union is at a decisive stage of its history, which must be accompanied by budgets which are suited to the challenges we are facing. We must begin by acknowledging the fact that, if we want to promote the work of the Union and make it truly efficient, we should enter soon into a debate on the Union’s resources and the Community’s budgetary weight. First of all, I should point out that throughout the difficult negotiation, which has ended with a positive agreement, progress has been made in resolving problems which go beyond a particular budgetary year. The commitments made in the statements during the conciliation process represent a code of conduct which works in favour of transparency and greater efficiency in spending. It is therefore important during the next six-month period, under the Spanish Presidency, which has declared its intentions with regard to the financial Regulation, to reach a definitive agreement on this fundamental piece of legislation. We have responded to the problem created by the lack of a fisheries agreement with Morocco by compensating the Community fleets in Spain and Portugal and guaranteeing the funding of the necessary conversion and modernisation programmes both in the 2002 budget and in the current period, as the Commissioner has pointed out, and I thank her warmly for her commitment. But it is also necessary for this Parliament to stand shoulder to shoulder with the Commission on such important projects as the establishment of the European satellite navigation system, known as Galileo. At a time when there are doubts on the part of some Member States, we must make it clear that the programme must not be called into question and that this phase needs to be basically sustained by means of public funding, as the Turchi report demonstrates. It is true that, as we move towards the mid point of the period of the financial framework in force, the difficulties increase because the new demands, the new commitments, call on the budget without any financial coverage. Despite the difficulties and contradictions, I sincerely believe that, with the signing of this budget, the way ahead has been partly cleared. It is a political success because it is rigorous and is accompanied by guarantees of more efficient implementation, and these conditions are essential if we are to ensure healthy and sustainable economic growth. –  Madam President, I believe three basic issues arise out of the 2004 budget guidelines. These are firstly, the potential level of expenditure, secondly, improved implementation, and thirdly, strategic options for expenditure. As regards the level of expenditure, the Union’s budget currently represents 1.02 % of gross Community income, and is at its lowest level. The present perspectives would allow an additional 5 000 billion. The same level of expenditure is planned for the 2004 budget. We are therefore operating in austerity mode, which should please the Council. Sound implementation is crucial for the 2004 budget. Payment take up has been well below that forecast during the last three years. The total surplus for those three years amounts to some 23 000 billion. Last year’s declaration on implementation profiles and the plan to do away with the abnormal RAL must therefore be followed through. Concerning priorities, I am sure Mr Mulder’s report is on the right lines. It takes account of two key issues, namely the concerns and expectations of the citizens on the one hand, and on the other, the conditions needed to allow the budgetary authority to reach a consensual decision. The 2004 budget is crucial and represents a new departure for the Union. There are a number of reasons why this is so. The citizens understand that their security, freedom and prosperity demand appropriate budgetary decisions and common instruments. External border controls, the fight against organised crime and terrorism demand increased capacity for Europol and Eurojust. Finally, the promotion of business activity is crucial to the success of an enlarged Union. Many issues are still outstanding. I refer for example to the potential financial implications of agricultural reform or of the adoption of the adjustment of the financial perspectives. I have to say that I am amazed the Council is not represented in the House today. Nonetheless, the Council must realise that there is only one way of dealing with the challenges before us, and that is by reaching agreement with Parliament. – Mr President, Commissioner, I must first congratulate the general rapporteur, Mrs Haug, the President of the Commission and my colleagues who have been involved in negotiations on the excellent work that they have done. The final outcome of the negotiations is positive, which shows that in order to achieve some objectives, what matters is not getting there alone and early, but getting there altogether and on time. We wanted a budget that would combine our efforts with those of the Member States to contribute to economic growth and increasing employment, and therefore the agreement that has been reached on the multiannual amount for the small businesses programme is a good thing. However, sustaining this and Parliament’s other political priorities needs to be compatible with budgetary stability in spending. It is true that the Union is in its most favourable economic situation for 10 years, as is proved by the fact that the net balances have improved a great deal. But, precisely for this reason, I think that the agreement reached on payment appropriations is reasonable, because it combines efforts in the right direction for sustained growth. Parliament’s budgetary strategy marks a before and an after at this start of the millennium. Because the negotiations not only lead to the final amounts and their distribution, but also to the implementation of instruments which are going to enable us to measure to what extent the political will of this Parliament translates into facts. And I am going a little further, because it is not enough to have strict and transparent rules for implementing the budget, such as the cancellation of commitments if they have not been implemented after two years. This should go hand in hand with a commitment from the College of Commissioners to a fair and efficient distribution of human and material resources for the management of the various policies, that is, they must remember the political priority of Parliament and the management priority of the Commission. –  Mr President, I only want to say two things. The list of examples given in the question is the result of selective memory, which I feel is hardly appropriate in these cases. But in short, Commissioner, as of today we do not have an updated scoreboard, nor do we have a legal instrument to regulate the conditions and material assumptions of expulsion. On 12 December in Palermo, the United Nations is going to sign the World Convention on Organised Crime with a protocol on the traffic in human beings. There is a direct relationship between organised crime and immigration. What proposals does the Commission have concerning this matter on the basis of Article 31 of the Union? – I am grateful for the courtesy of your reply, Commissioner, but I have to say that it does not fully respond to the very specific questions which I have put to you. I believe that the legal basis of Article 149 provides us with the opportunity to move forward a little more than the cautious Prague mandate. The concept of quality in education is more than a quantitative measure of the resources of the different systems or an evaluation of performance in certain academic disciplines. To my mind, the agenda of the Council of Education Ministers of 26 November could have made use of the proposal of a permanent committee on quality in education. In the light of the results of the first European report on quality in education, which this Parliament will take good note of, would it be possible for this committee or some other form of committee to provide common benchmarks in the area of the curriculum? I urge the Commission to face this challenge with political courage. We must go beyond the Prague mandate. We must go beyond the old debate between uniformity and national idiosyncrasies. The debate on quality in education must help us to duly open up European consciousness to the younger generations. . –  Mr President, I shall restrict my comments to the initiative concerning basic salaries and allowances applicable to Europol staff. I was responsible for this as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets. This might appear to be a minor issue, almost a routine matter. As currently presented, however, it lacks the necessary rigour. Parliament already ruled on the appropriateness of including the Europol budget in the Community budget when called to do so in the past. Europol has indeed broadened the scope of its competence in recent years. This process has not, however, been accompanied by a change in its legal framework. Parliament has therefore been unable to exercise its function of democratic control. The decision on salary adjustment must be included in the scope of the budget. It so happens that this area, which does of course include the financial Rules, operates without Parliament having to rule on such matters. This is the background against which we have been consulted on the adjustment of salaries and allowances, pursuant to Article 44 of the present Convention. As Mr Deprez has already pointed out, the decision does not give the reason why the salary adjustment was set at 5.2%. The salary adjustment for Community officials in the Netherlands for the same period was 4.3%. This figure was based on statistics supplied by the OECD for all Community institutions. True, Article 44 of the Convention does not link adjustment to a procedure similar to that applied to other officials. Nonetheless I believe such lack of justification is not in line with the principles of sound financial management applicable to the Community budget. This initiative has therefore been rejected because of the lack of justification provided in the procedure adopted. The salary level of Europol officials is not at issue. Mr President, we trust Europol will be strengthened and that it will fulfil its duties efficiently so that the citizens feel protected. This is all perfectly compatible however with the democratic control the House always insists on when the legal status of this instrument for police cooperation is debated. . – Mr President, discrimination, in any of its guises, deeply offends our sense of co-existence and undermines one of the guiding principles of the Union, that of equality of treatment. This principle, as well as the prohibition of all types of discrimination, have also been included in the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights. I shall now comment on the fight against discrimination which we are examining today along with the proposal for a directive. The programme, despite being modest financially, can play a significant role in strengthening the mechanisms for combating discrimination and will achieve its aims if there is coordination, at both a Community level and within the Member States, with other programmes and initiatives in the same field. It is the Member States who are most directly responsible for the eradication of discriminatory practices and it is therefore essential that we incorporate all our accumulated experience and in this field, and that this Parliament ensures that it is effectively monitored. We must support the social partners, the NGOs and other institutions which are pursuing the same objective, and we must also demand rigour in the selection of the actions and organisations which we are to support financially. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the budgetary pressures that exist within category 3 expenditure, which includes this and other programmes. Although the present legal basis releases appropriations for new preparatory actions, their funding within this category could lead to a reduction in appropriations for other policies. I would like to point out that, despite the commitment from the Commission, there is no express mention in the programme of technical assistance costs which are nevertheless envisaged in the financial statement. For this reason, the sum total of the appropriations must be allocated to financing operating expenditure. The citizens expect us to implement concrete measures. The fight against discrimination is something which concerns us all. In my view, this programme operates within a very general scope. Without prejudicing its objectives, we should support actions which are more in touch with the realities of discrimination. With regard to the proposal for a directive, I would like firstly to congratulate Mr Thomas Mann on the excellent work he has done. Balance, moderation and legal expertise were required and I believe that his report reflects those qualities. The common objective of eradicating discrimination in the field of employment can and must be pursued from many angles, but it is clear that the role to be played makes it essential to establish a minimal legal framework which must be consistent with all the measures to combat discrimination and, in particular, with the directive on race. The Member States already have a legal framework, both in the constitutional field and in ordinary legislation, and experience of the measures adopted in the fight against discrimination, which must be taken into account. Therefore, the concepts of framework directive and minimal directive are the key to interpreting the present proposal for a directive. However, the establishment of a perfect legal architecture which prohibits discrimination and protects the victims of it, does not guarantee its eradication in practice nor the elimination of its causes. It is therefore essential, amongst other things, to encourage and promote the culture of dialogue. The system of penalties laid down in the directive must guarantee that it acts as a deterrentand that it is effective in the eradication of discriminatory practices. However, as well as the penalties, the declaration of invalidity of activities is also important in the case of serious violations of the principles laid down in the directive. The exception of a difference in treatment which may be made on ideological or religious grounds or for reasons of age must bring together the law which protects certain public and private organisations with scrupulous respect for the principle of equal treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a framework directive is necessary but not sufficient, and we will have the opportunity to improve its mechanisms once the implementation period is over. The fight against discrimination will be a long one and we must therefore be attentive to the results of the measures we are debating today. – Thank you, Mr President, for your reactions and your keen-sighted ability to notice that I am present in the House. I would like to remind the illustrious rapporteur, Mr Dell'Alba, that above and beyond differences of opinion, which are always legitimate, there must be parliamentary courtesy and the individual right of Members to carry out their work, which includes the presentation of amendments should they deem it necessary. In any event, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that we should be pleased, firstly because we are dealing with the first broad legislative proposal on the financial regulation of the Union, which runs in partnership with the administrative reform of management and human resources procedures and which must be the undeniable political objectives of Parliament and the Commission. It was decided – correctly, in my view – not to correct the defects in the legislative framework employed until now and, instead, to implement a new administrative culture on control and spending efficiency in the quest for the common objective of the better and more transparent management of public money. The rules on decision-making in this field, however, show very little political logic. We should therefore be pleased with the strategy which the rapporteur is suggesting: to vote for amendments which reflect good work and a good departure point for the discussion of the more delicate aspects of the proposal, and to force the Council to take account of the opinion of the European Parliament when the Commission presents its amended proposal. During the desirable and possible interinstitutional dialogue, we must try to negotiate a financial regulation which is intended to be permanent, which substantially takes account of this Parliament’s often repeated priorities in this field. In order to achieve this permanence there are some very controversial aspects, such as the removal of control, which may distract us from other deficiencies with broader repercussions. I am referring to the regulation of the public markets and to subsidies. The current situation is not only bad, but chaotic. Throughout these recent years, we have not been able to harmonise the multi-coloured situation of public contracts. With regard to the information which Parliament requires for the purposes of the discharge of the budget – and I would ask you to be benevolent, Mr President – I believe that the Commission’s position is coherent insofar as it respects the basic elements of the framework Interinstitutional Agreement on the application of Article 206 of the Treaty. I believe that in this field we can and must agree a text based on a consensus in the future, safeguarding the principles which are essential to this Parliament, such as human rights, fundamental freedoms and non-interference in  procedures. – Mr President, Commissioner, in view of the initial positions of the Council and the Commission, this budgetary procedure deals with the challenge of being capable of contributing to the historic task of enlargement and funding the reform of the working methods of our institutions. The reports by Mr Färm and Mr Stenmarck reflect Parliament’s concerns and priorities in relation to these issues and I therefore join in congratulating them on their excellent work. The budgetary guidelines must be based on elements which are of interest to the citizens: the objective of full employment and the Union’s solidarity policies. And, before mentioning other aspects, I would like to thank the Commissioner for her expressed commitment for 2003 to fund the last stage of the structuring programme for the fishing fleets. The budget for 2003 faces difficulties similar to those of recent years and rather more serious in the field of administrative expenditure. Furthermore, the Union’s commitments in external aid and the continuous demands of the security and defence policy must receive a budgetary response compatible with the rights of Parliament and the financial framework in force. In this respect, we must carefully analyse the Commission’s proposal on the creation of a new budgetary mechanism to confront the implications of the crisis. In the field of management we may come across difficulties in payments, despite the fact that year after year we have a surplus. It is therefore necessary to have detailed knowledge of the final amount resulting from the non-execution of the spending commitments and, likewise, to know the evaluations necessary in the medium term of the multiannual commitments of policies funded by means of heading 3. This could provide us with a margin for flexibility in order to more efficiently adapt political priorities to the available resources. Finally, I would point out that the citizens have offered an historic example of confidence by accepting the euro without hesitation and they have shown us the way forward. The Union’s budget must reflect this confidence and contribute to strengthening the policies of the States aimed at full employment, solidarity and economic growth. Mr President, Commissioner, representative of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to begin by saying that, following the events of last weekend, and what has already been said here this afternoon, the main virtue of this 2004 budget, for an institutionally very complex year, is the mere fact that it exists at all. The budget offers stability and confidence, key factors if enlargement is to be a success. It is therefore essential that the Commission and national administrations respond effectively. This Parliament has offered its support for the reform of the Commission and its request for posts, because we believe that the Union’s budget is synonymous with credibility, and there can be no credibility when in the last three financial years the average use of available payment appropriations stood at 85%, according to the European Court of Auditors. The agreement between the Council and Parliament has once again been in the interests of the citizens. Once again, Parliament has demonstrated flexibility in the negotiations, without relinquishing its political priorities. The work of the rapporteurs, of the chairman of our committee, Mr Wynn, and of the Members who have participated, has been of great merit, because, amongst other things, the agreement allows us to maintain a level of spending which is in line with the efforts of the States to achieve a balance in their public accounts, to deal with the Union’s basic commitments in processes of institutional crisis – I would remind you that next May there will be a Latin American-European Union Summit, and it is important to stress that, from a budgetary point of view, the creation of a solidarity fund has also been promoted – and, finally, give value to Community policies which have, and will have in the future, a fundamental role. I am talking, for example, about the financial support for programmes such as Argo, which is essential to the common management of migratory flows and the control of external borders, as well as the approval of a Community initiative in favour of the victims of terrorism, which, beyond the sums which have been directed towards them, demonstrate to the citizens that the Union is involved in the fight against terrorism in any of its forms. – Mr President, Commissioner, we are all familiar with the catalogue of problems affecting the Euro-Mediterranean region and their causes: they are basically the same as in 1995 when the Barcelona Process was launched. They have already been mentioned in the debate: from illegal immigration to droughts, from external debt to the failure to respect human rights, and terrorism, which ruthlessly destroys the lives of innocent human beings and families, as we are seeing in Spain, in Algeria and in the Middle East itself. Today more than ever we must make the statement that only cooperation, dialogue, economic and cultural exchanges, solidarity and mutual understanding can turn the two sides of the Mediterranean into a prosperous and peaceful area. Neither the European Union nor the Maghreb or Mashreq countries can afford not to take advantage of the human and cultural resources that enrich the region. The problem is that we are not doing that properly. The association agreements are dead letters in many respects. The financial instruments are not being used as they should and the political, economic and social development of those countries is not keeping up with the pace of horizontal cooperation, which is very necessary, nor with the modernity required today by a world which, technologically speaking, is taking giant steps forward. It is time to move from contemplation to action, to demand performance and effectiveness in the efforts to implement the strategy which has been drawn up and, in this respect, I would like to emphasise the demand for human resources to be strengthened, as indicated by Mr Galeote. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin, as some previous speakers have done, by thanking Mr Savary – the author of these two reports – for his work on achieving harmonisation, which has been difficult, but which has looked to the future. His task has certainly been difficult, and this has been demonstrated by the conflicting interests expressed during tonight’s speeches. As a Spanish MEP, I would have preferred the task to have been achieved with greater flexibility and certain technical specifications which affect structural issues within the railway system not to have been applied. I am referring specifically to the Spanish rail gauge, which, since this is a problem affecting the basic railway structure, we believe would involve a costly and slow renovation, and its particular circumstances need to be taken into account. This means that it should not be regulated by means of the so-called ‘specific cases’, subject to committee decisions, but that, on the contrary, we should consider the possibility that automatic derogations should apply depending on the incompatibility of these technical specifications with existing lines. We therefore hope that you will be receptive to this request because, otherwise, we should bear in mind that all the projects, all the development plans for the rail networks affected by these specifications, would be subject to difficult conditions, and this would have a negative effect, since it would create uncertainty in relation to the planned investment programmes themselves. – Mr President, on behalf of my colleagues Ripoll and Pérez Álvarez, who have worked on this report – but who are not able to be here – I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Peijs, on her marvellous report, in particular because it deals with a problem which is important for very real and practical reasons. Furthermore, I wish to say that there are two things which I am regretting right now: firstly, that I am not able to hear the opinion of our friend Mr Fatuzzo on how short sea shipping affects the interests of European pensioners, and secondly, that so few Members are present because, considering the egotistical interests of this House, it is probable that one day they will regret not having found out about the issue of short sea shipping, because they will perhaps have to use it one day to travel to and from Strasbourg. Turning to the background to the issue, I must tell Mrs Peijs that we have followed with great interest the developments and actions which in recent years, especially on the basis of the creation of the forum for the maritime industries, have been taking place in the European Union with a view to promoting short sea shipping as an alternative to land transport. Both the Commission’s report and the rapporteur’s report illustrate the different comparative advantages of each type of transport, of which, in the case of sea transport, I would like to highlight the fact that the infrastructures are less saturated, the fact that they are less expensive, they consume less energy and therefore emit fewer pollutants into the atmosphere and they improve communications with the outermost regions of the European Union. We consider – and I think we all agree on this – that the transfer of charges from land to sea transport should be taken as a priority objective of the European Union’s transport policy. I would like to highlight the fact that in the last two years there have been a series of actions which have had positive effects on short sea shipping. This has made it possible, as the Commission’s report points out, for intra-Community sea transport activity to increase by 23% between 1990 and 1997. Nevertheless, this is a relatively modest increase – of only 3% cumulatively per year – and this is less comparatively than the increase over the same period in land transport, which has been 26%. Consequently, rather than bringing the relative positions of sea transport and road transport closer together, the difference between them has continued to increase. All of this indicates therefore that we not only need more vigorous quantitative measures but that we probably need a different qualitative focus. Mrs Peijs’s report seems to us to be very balanced, but we would like to draw your attention to one of the key objectives for the promotion of short sea shipping: the simultaneous reduction of the time and direct cost involved in port operations for ships which provide this type of service. In many cases, the port services – both with regard to the ship and the goods – are faced with no effective competition or with very limited competition and this means that there is often abuse of dominant positions, such as the imposition of obligatory services which are not necessary or are not even used, for example, piloting, towing, mooring and port handling, as well as the payment of very high tariffs. What is certainly the case is that, apart from very few exceptions, transoceanic services do not have to face competition from roads and, in most cases, air transport does not offer any practical competition to them. For all these reasons, we believe that, if the intention is to promote short sea shipping in a realistic and effective way, it is essential to reorganise the current provision of port services, by improving their efficiency and reducing their costs. We should also bear in mind what this means for the economies of the areas in which there is a ship-building industry. This means a revitalisation of the whole area, as is well known by the people who live in those cities, in those regions, in which the ship-building industry is a very active element in the local economy. –  Mr President, the city of Arequipa will never be the same again. The loss of human life that has happened there, the economic damage and also the irreparable destruction of the historical and monumental heritage of this most beautiful city have astounded us all. Southern Peru is experiencing a tragic situation caused by the earthquake of 23 June, the devastating effects of which have left over a hundred dead, over a thousand injured, and have destroyed over ten thousand homes, leaving over 40 000 people homeless in the provinces of Arequipa, Moquegua and Tacna. The earthquake has also caused severe destruction in northern Chile and in Bolivia. The economic damage has set these regions back by more than 20 years. The scale of the disaster has affected infrastructure and economic development. Some towns, villages, districts, settlements and roads have been destroyed by the earthquake. Faced by such a disaster, the forces of international solidarity and especially European solidarity were swift to act. The European Union humanitarian office mobilised in record time, and I should like to congratulate those responsible in the European Commission on their rapid intervention with a package of measures which, right from the first few hours, included food aid, temporary accommodation, supplies of products for purifying water and deliveries of medicines. In this context I must also feel proud of the solidarity expressed by the Spanish government and people, who have contributed very generously. At times like these we have to look to the future, and the reconstruction and rehabilitation plans must be coordinated quickly and effectively. To these ends, a strategic communication should be drawn up covering all aspects of aid coordination and the reconstruction and rehabilitation plans that I have mentioned for the affected areas. This sad human tragedy may be an occasion for Latin Americans to be more united and determined when facing their numerous difficulties, and also for them to deepen their ties and their process of regional integration with, perhaps, larger doses of solidarity. – Madam President, Commissioner, we are very concerned about the human rights situation and also by the slow progress of democracy in Equatorial Guinea. The trial held last spring, which ended in the conviction of 68 people, showed that there are no legal guarantees that can be backed up internationally, as was clear in the declaration made by this House in June. The trial broke off what was slow but positive progress, which is reprehensible. However, it should not be forgotten that it is not always the best solution to shut off channels of communication with a country that is in deficit when it comes to respecting human rights. We think that we should maintain a critical dialogue, seeking to make gradual progress. We need to strongly condemn abuses, but we should also acknowledge steps forward when they are made, for example, the freeing of 120 people who had been in prison for some time on 12 October in honour of the 34th anniversary of the independence of Guinea. I am of course aware that this is not enough, but we must recognise that it took place. With regard to the slow pace of the democratisation process, it should be criticised that four opposition candidates had to withdraw on the day of the presidential elections due to irregularities in the votes, even though the electoral campaign had run without any serious incidents. Of course we cannot forget that members of significant parties are being detained or are in exile, such as Severo Moto, the president of the banned Progress Party, who is in exile in Madrid. We trust that the next elections, the legislative elections planned in a few months’ time, will be held with more guarantees and freedom. Therefore, in the Resolution being debated today the Guinean Government should be invited to take measures to give credibility to its will to make the system democratic, establishing a serious dialogue with absolutely all of the political movements. At the same time, the political movements should avoid making speeches like those made by the four candidates who withdrew, which could lead to violence. We need to criticise what there is to criticise, but help progress to continue. We cannot therefore support this Resolution, because it is simply a head-on attack on the Guinean Government, which could have counterproductive results and not benefit the people of Guinea or lead towards a democratisation process. – Mr President, I would like to share in the happiness of my compatriots and fellow Members who have talked of their satisfaction at the freeing of the Spanish Jesuit Alejandro Matos and of other Community citizens. We cannot forget that, in the past year, 2 075 people have been kidnapped in Colombia by the guerrillas, and we must express our concern for the violent situation that it is experiencing, particularly in the north, in the Santander region – a jungle region whose border with Venezuela is, moreover, very easily penetrated – where the constant clashes between guerrillas and paramilitaries are increasing, with many road blocks and frequent murders. I therefore think that we should reiterate our support for a peaceful solution to the Colombian conflict, in which the actions of the drug cartels have a dramatic influence. The European Union must therefore support the initiatives by President Andrés Pastrana, aimed at achieving a negotiated peace between his government and the guerrilla groups, the FAR (Revolutionary Armed Forces) and the so-called National Liberation Army. Mr President, Commissioner, I speak from experience acquired during many visits to El Ejido over the years. I was therefore aware how the situation was developing. Here in the European Parliament, as in many other institutions, we have watched this situation with concern and were beside ourselves when we heard what had happened. This is because we felt the problem to be ours, as it was. In El Ejido there is a serious social problem, problems of integration and employment and also a grave problem of public safety which acted as the detonator. These events have also acted as a wake-up call to our consciences. Here in this House, in Spain and in many other countries, we have all fixed on El Ejido. Yet what we do and say here and the concern we express will really serve no purpose unless this leads to the adoption of a much more determined attitude to finding out what is really happening, not only in El Ejido, but in many other places where this type of problem may be occurring at any given moment. We all agree in our condemnation of intolerance and we also agree that we must look forward. We will not find the guilty parties in this House or in many other places. Those responsible for what happened in El Ejido are a minority who set out to satisfy their desire for vengeance on the immigrants. We must bear in mind that vengeance is not a solution. These problems can only be solved by close cooperation between all the authorities in order to achieve social integration and respect for all working there. This therefore requires a determined fight against illegal immigration and profound respect for the rights of immigrant workers who are legally working in El Ejido and throughout Europe. – Mr President, Peru is currently going through a period of uncertainty, and we all cherish the hope that the current situation will be resolved through a process in which all civil and political rights are guaranteed, which will help to strengthen and consolidate democracy and peace in Peru, a country that has suffered 25 000 deaths in the last fifteen years. The European Union, which is the leading cooperating country in economic terms and the main investor in Peru, with figures exceeding 6 000 million dollars in the last seven years, must maintain its cooperation based on the democratic clause established in the third and fourth generation agreements with the countries of the Andean Pact. These are based on universally recognised principles of respect for pluralist democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Also, the European Union must, with maximum care, invite all the Peruvian democratic forces to take part in dialogue in order to achieve commitments guaranteeing the exercise of civil and public rights and freedom of expression. – Mr President, I am speaking in place of my colleague, Mr Hernández Mollar and, on his behalf, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou on the excellent work which she has done. It is clear that the drug problem, not only on a European level but also on a world level, requires the special attention of politicians, institutions and the whole of civil society. On 26 October, in this Parliament, the President of Colombia, a country which unfortunately has strong links with the drug problem, told us: “Drug trafficking has been the great creator of violence and has led to assassinations of the highest possible human cost to our country”. And we are not talking here about an issue which only affects the Member States nor the European Union, but an issue which directly affects human beings in any country of the world. Our first concern in this Parliament should be to point out that the responsibility is collective, that it requires collaboration, cooperation and coordination between the judicial and penal authorities and between the different continents, whether they be the European Union, Latin America, South East Asia or African countries. The second concern is that the European Union must play a greater role in the field of reducing the demand for drugs. To this end, the European Parliament, in this resolution, has highlighted and strengthened the role which the European Observatory on Drugs and Drug Addiction must play by giving it greater means and resources to fulfil its objective efficiently. I would like particularly to stress the importance of the fight against traffickers who use and exploit illegal immigrants, especially on the Southern border of Europe, in Andalucia, Ceuta and Melilla, which have become a channel for drug trafficking. I would like to dedicate the third consideration to the group which is most affected by this social scourge; our young people. A recent survey carried out in my country indicated that the second greatest social problem in the eyes of our young people was, after unemployment, the drug problem. As the resolution says, drugs give rise to family problems, work problems and road accidents. If we add to this the considerable increase which has been observed in the consumption of alcohol by young people, which in many cases goes hand in hand with drug-taking, especially synthetic drugs, we can see the need to adopt urgent measures which will reverse this trend. Action in the field of education and families, economic cooperation with associations and NGOs, especially in the field of leisure and sport, will complement the actions which must banish this “pressure valve” from the lives of our young people which sometimes means that they are destroyed by something which starts out as a means of escape. But we cannot solve these problems by talk alone. Resources are required. Both the Member States and the European Union itself must prioritise, in their budgets, the economic means which will allow the implementation of the measures proposed, including prevention, suppression and rehabilitation. And unfortunately this is still not the case. – Mr President, I will begin by saying that I am Andalusian and that I live in Andalusia, though I am not so arrogant as to claim that I represent the entire Andalusian people, as Mr Bautista has done – although that arrogance is based on very few votes. The truth is that I would have liked him to have felt so vehemently Andalusian when it came to signing this House’s condemnation of terrorism – and this must be said this afternoon more unequivocally and with less reticence – especially given that more than 70% of the members of the security forces murdered by ETA have been Andalusians. Having said this, we must remember that there has been a lot of contradictory information since May when the nuclear submarine , belonging to the British navy, chose the port of Gibraltar – which flies the British flag – to have repairs carried out on the cooling system of its nuclear reactor, which, according to the British authorities initially, presented no special difficulty or any danger to the inhabitants of the area. Further explanations have followed and concern about what was happening to the has been increasing. The Spanish Government, from the outset, has held a position based on two points: the need for transparent information, based on technical and scientific criteria, in order to assess the scope of the repairs and their potential risk; and also, the view that any decision, either on its repair in Gibraltar or on its removal to a naval base in the British Isles, be taken in accordance with rigorous technical principles. This has been and, in our view, remains, the most coherent position and the one which safeguards the interests and safety of all the parties involved. Of course, what has been neither coherent nor appropriate has been the deliberate creation of social alarm in the area, with the clear purpose of turning this problem into an attack on the Spanish Government. In this event, we must tell our Spanish Socialist Members – with the greatest of respect – that they have allowed party interests to be placed above State interests. This is demonstrated by the curious agreement which they reached with British Labour Members to take responsibility away from the people who own the submarine, the people who are responsible for its mooring and remaining in Gibraltar and who are responsible for its repair, and who are also in charge of the port in which it is anchored. The important thing at the moment is to ensure that we are provided with good, transparent information, with a sufficient scientific basis, on the scope and consequences of the repairs, and that there be a serious study of the possibilities and risks involved in a possible removal of the submarine, if that becomes necessary. What we do not need are demagogic attitudes, which can only be explained by pure party-political opportunism and which create, amongst other things, alarm and concern within a population which has every right to safety and information, but which need not endure, as well as all this, being manipulated. –  Mr President, first we must express our concern for the Sahrawi people, many of whom have experienced long years of exile and suffering. Solving their problem means respecting the deadlines for holding the referendum that has been postponed again and again. If there were to be another postponement it would seriously aggravate the problem. Stability, security and peace in the Maghreb region depend on this referendum taking place. For the referendum to lead to the fulfilment of those objectives, however, the preparatory work must be done with great care, especially the correct compilation of the full electoral roll, which has still not been achieved, and strict fulfilment of the criteria governing its compilation must be insisted on. The European Union must fully assume its role of mediator in this process, which is important not just for the region itself, but also for the whole of Europe, and especially for certain countries. It must carry out that role by, amongst other things, supporting the decisions of the United Nations and ensuring that the process reaches a conclusion in total transparency and with maximum guarantees, complete probity and respect for democracy. . Mr President, Commissioner, as draftsman of the opinion for this report, I must acknowledge that I agree on many of the aspects highlighted by the main rapporteur, Mrs Rühle. Article 49(2) of the new financial regulation, approved last year, lays down that, except in relation to institutional prerogatives, pilot projects, preparatory actions and operational appropriations for each institution, all other operational expenses will require a basic instrument for their execution. As has already been pointed out, this means proposing legal bases for these subsidies which are currently in part A, as in the case of the report we are dealing with. Nobody here will be surprised if I say that the work of preparing this report has been particularly delicate, since the economic interests of many bodies working to promote active European citizenship are at stake. This proposal includes ten budget lines which I am not going to repeat and whose objective is to stimulate the bodies defined in the different budgetary lines so that they may contribute to the promotion of active and participatory citizenship. This is the common objective of these subsidies, that is, to enhance the role of these organisations and to promote actions which in turn strengthen the European message. The most controversial aspect is undoubtedly the earmarking which some Member States are opposed to, as has been pointed out. But we represent the interests of the citizens and this report, together with another establishing a Community action programme for the promotion of bodies active at European level in the fields of culture, youth, education and training, are of key importance in terms of the European Union's credibility, and by means of them it is possible to communicate the fundamental message of our work, which is to build Europe with the participation of the citizens. I would therefore call on the Council and the Commission, within the framework of the new legislation, to act in favour of this interest, removing procedural obstacles which are overly complicated. Finally, let us not forget that, as Salvador de Madariaga said, Europe will exist when it exists in the conscience of all its citizens. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, it is gratifying and encouraging to hear this House speak of a new strategic objective for the next decade. This objective consists of creating a European Union which, on the world stage, forms a more dynamic and competitive economic and social area, based on new technologies, innovation and knowledge, so that we are capable of increasing levels of economic growth, with more, and better, jobs and greater social cohesion. It is clear that we must redefine the role of Europe in the world economy, creating a competitive Europe, opening the way to new and better jobs and organising this process with an appropriate strategy for social cohesion. The central role of employment and social policy, in the creation of this new society, is based on two factors. On the one hand we have economic efficiency, since, in this new technological context, the quality of human resources is essential. On the other hand, we have social equality, because, despite the economic upturn which we are witnessing, we still have an enormous degree of social inequality. Unemployment, social exclusion and the danger of future imbalance in the social security systems, are problems which are exacerbated by the unavoidable challenges of globalisation, an ageing population, technological changes, demographic slowdown and the increasing incorporation of women in the workplace. Europe needs to achieve full employment. This full employment should be adapted to the society taking shape, with greater possibilities for its men and women. European citizens must believe in this project and this state of affairs. They must not see it as something abstract which we only speak about in Brussels or Strasbourg. We are asking right now for a transition to a new society, to an economy based on innovation, and on the information and knowledge-based society. We must learn quickly, create new practices more suited to the new society and invest in technological change, but we must never forget the people or the institutions. Lisbon will be a step forward and we must achieve a renewal of the European social model because that is the only way we can achieve greater employment and, at the same time, greater social cohesion. To this end, we must concentrate on a series of priority issues. We must improve the effectiveness of active employment policies. We must strengthen the synergies between adaptability, education and lifelong training. We must increase employment in the sector consisting of services which facilitate business initiative and reduce the administrative burden on small- and medium-sized enterprises, reducing non-wage costs. Lastly, we have to promote the integration of general equal opportunities policies for all men and women, with particular stress on aspects which help to reconcile professional life with family life. All of this has to be done thinking of the European citizen. It has to be done thinking of the men and women who live and work daily in our countries. The Special Lisbon Summit must fundamentally reaffirm, for the European citizen, the notion that the European Union still believes in the idea of a society which favours inclusion and social cohesion. –  Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, it must be recognised that the sinking of the  caused a wave of indignation at the time in European public opinion against the shortcomings of existing measures and the inability to prevent a catastrophe of this magnitude. This accident revealed the limitations of a political approach that tried to deal with maritime safety exclusively within the framework of international organisations like the IMO. Therefore the Commission and especially the Commissioner Mrs De Palacio must be congratulated on the excellent work they have done over this period. In one year they have tabled six proposals aiming at improving maritime safety, showing the great importance attached to this subject. I should also like to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr Ortuondo and Mr Watts, for the excellent work they have done. In any case, one year on, although it seems we could be quite satisfied with the way we have responded to the expectations of our citizens, I think we should already have given these measures final approval. In view of the urgency with which both this Parliament and the Council have dealt with this package of measures, one might think we have been able to react quickly. In reality, however, the debate on this subject has lasted quite a long time, and if we go to conciliation we shall still have to wait several months before we see these measures finally adopted, which will affect the credibility of the institutions we represent. And even though one year may seem a relatively short time by Community standards, we must agree with the Commission that perhaps we are jeopardising the effectiveness of the  package by discussing matters of secondary importance. The very extensive international safety regulations that today govern maritime transport have brought about a drastic reduction in accidents and pollution, and the measures we are debating today show the commitment of our institutions to enhancing vessel safety and the protection of the marine environment. Finally, I should like to keep up this sense of urgency in our work without resting on our laurels. I trust in this Parliament’s determination to move the Erika II package forward with the three new measures that complement those we are debating today, and I agree that the Council too must hurry up and support Parliament. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that I am making this speech on behalf of Mrs García Orcoyen, who was unable to attend this sitting. Tomorrow's approval of this framework directive will represent a great step forward on the road to the cohesion and harmonisation of the legislation of the Member States with regard to the quantity and quality of their water. In this last stage of the long parliamentary process undergone by this directive, in particular during conciliation, the European Parliament has been able to present a united front in defending its arguments before the Council. The rapporteur's superb coordination and the will to reach an understanding shown by all the political groups have made this final text possible, and it has been improved in basic aspects such as the legally binding nature of the objectives without omitting to take account of the various problems in the Member States. I must also congratulate the Council on its flexibility in the face of the criticisms put forward by Parliament, and the Commission for its effective mediation. Tomorrow, a new and equally important stage in the directive’s development will begin, in which the European Parliament must continue to participate extremely actively in monitoring and controlling the fulfilment of objectives and deadlines and the drawing-up of reports or legislative acts derived from the directive. One of the weakest points to have become apparent during the drawing-up stage must be strengthened: the incontestable need for more and better means of technical advice for subjects which, like this, require highly specific knowledge, and in which the social and economic cost of a small calculation error can be great. Finally, I would like to emphasise what makes this directive a real tool for sustainable development: the balance achieved in the consideration of water as an extremely valuable economic resource and as an essential element in the conservation of European ecosystems. The development of this directive may provide an important meeting point in the much-reviled relationship between economy and ecology. – I regret that the Commissioner has once again become involved in an imaginative and, in this case, passionate intervention. I would like to remind all of you that Spain is about to hold elections, and in fact there are just 25 days left before the elections. It should be of comfort to the Commissioner that these elections will take place in 25 days time, since after that he will probably not have to deal with this type of question again. I do believe it is important to say that Andalusia is going to receive 50% more within the Community support framework and that Spain also holds the record for the use of the Structural Funds, which means that the distribution is based strictly on the implementing regulations and is decentralised by means of the regional development plans and different Community support frameworks. Lastly I would like to ask the Commissioner a specific question: Do you consider it necessary to change the implementing regulations for the Structural Funds or do you consider the current distribution criteria to be acceptable? –  Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Collins on his work, his serious, objective and rigorous work in drawing up this report on protecting the rights of air passengers in the European Union. I fully agree with the rapporteur when he states that it is necessary – and I would say quite urgent – that we improve the current level of protection in cases of denied boarding, flight cancellations, unjustified delays which, in many cases, lead to connections with other flights or with other means of transport being missed and a long list of similar problems, which is growing every day, not to mention the fact that we Members of this Parliament are long-suffering victims of these inconveniences. We must put a stop to this deterioration of quality before it becomes irreversible. I must thank the Commissioner for the efforts that her department is making to achieve this, but in order to achieve this, we must undertake a thorough and appropriate review of current legislation in this field and improve all aspects of it that will lead to greater and better protection of passengers’ rights. We also need to closely monitor the voluntary agreements signed by airlines, which are also designed to improve air transport conditions. Mainly, however, what is essential is a form of vigilance that ensures total compliance with current legislation, which often appears to be nothing more than a useless piece of paper and as such, cannot serve the purposes for which it was intended. This is the aspect on which immediate and effective action can and must be undertaken. To start with, we should firmly insist that a ‘Charter on Passenger Rights’ be properly marketed – as the rapporteur has already suggested. Precise, clear, intelligible and full information is necessary to ensure that passengers are aware of their rights and of how to exercise them and, of course, we cannot accept these posters being hidden away in obscure corners into which few people go in many airports. This information must be sufficiently publicised and made available to all users and not only in airports but also at points of ticket sales, in travel agencies and also, as far as possible, in the media. Unless we ensure that passengers have access to information on their rights, which in many cases means that they cannot exercise these rights, there is no point at all in embarking on a legislative process whose outcome might also end up being nothing more than a useless piece of paper. .Mr President, I should first explain that I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Mr Pérez Álvarez who has as yet been unable to join us at this sitting. As the rapporteur rightly reminded us, a series of unfortunate events have taken place at sea. Such disasters are bound to lead us to review certain aspects of these occupations from the point of view of health and safety at work. There are implications too for the environment and for every worker’s right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity, as provided for by Article 31 of the Charter on Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Training of seafarers is crucial to attaining the appropriate safety levels in maritime transport. It is also vital to accident prevention. This is an appropriate opportunity to remind the Commission of the need to enhance the status of nautical occupations and make them more attractive to our young people. This would help achieve a reduction in unemployment and also improve safety levels in maritime transport. Parliament has long been calling on the Commission and the Council to take action in this regard. It is certainly the case that the training required within the European Union may not be imparted or may be evaded when seafarers from third countries are recruited for European Union vessels Such individuals are engaged because of the shortage of Community professionals and may well lack the necessary training. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs will raise four issues in its opinion. These are the retention of the option of a selective approach to the recognition of aptitude certificates, the introduction of a European certificate of conformity for these certificates, a time limit on extension of recognition and a Community procedure for withdrawal of recognition. Much good work has been done by Mr Poignant, rapporteur on the content. This has facilitated progress on some of the issues raised. They must all be retained in the spirit of the changes as ideals for the future. This is in line with the aforementioned Article 31 and also with Article 37 of the Charter. Both articles are to be enshrined in the European Constitution and will become a binding part of it. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to say firstly that I am speaking on behalf of Mr Pérez Álvarez, a Galician, who has had to return to his region urgently. I would like to say that I fully agree with the Commissioner’s words and support those measures which offer a clear line of action. We also share her desire for their application to be speeded up. This is what is needed, and what we do not need is any more political demagoguery such as that expressed in some speeches we have heard here. Perhaps these are the thoughts of a Galician countryman, whose future and family situation is looking grim following what has been described as the worst ecological, economic and social disaster in the history of Galicia. We understand that the people of Galicia are today sad and angry, and that sadness and anger has known and identifiable faces: each and every one of the people directly affected by the oil slick caused by the oil tanker disaster, and each and every one of the Galicians who, in Galicia and throughout the world, love their homeland and all of those of us who feel solidarity with them. On the other side are the people responsible, whose faces are obscured behind flags of convenience and legal procedures distorted to this end, and with a view to fraudulently avoiding the rules of the internal market, without caring about possible ecological damage – which is now real – and social and economic harm, and, without wanting to be alarmist, the damage which may also be in store for other coastal areas as the result of a domino effect. I believe that enough has been said and that we must look forward, learning from the lessons of the immediate past. The Galician Government has said that it is not going to impose any limits on the aid to the people affected. The Spanish Government and the European Commission is announcing measures. But situations such as this cannot and must not happen again, and we must repair and prevent the effects which may yet extend to other areas of Galicia or Portugal, because the risk remains there. We will all be grateful for the measures taken, especially those who live, work and suffer along our coasts. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like it to be noted that I am speaking in place of Mr Pérez Álvarez, who has been the shadow rapporteur for this report on behalf of my group and who is able to attend this sitting. On his behalf and on my own, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur and say that I am pleased with the work he has done and with the positive attitude he has adopted towards the amendments which had been presented by Mr Pérez Álvarez. Directive 93/104/EC is a continuation of Directive 89/391/EC, on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of workers at work, with the idea that the creation of the internal market must lead to an improvement in working and living conditions, by means of approximating legislations. In this respect, the Commission’s report is a general description of how the Member States have transposed and applied the aforementioned directive with results which clearly indicate that the method and result could be improved. It has been demonstrated that not only the temporary delay in compliance with the transposition period and, consequently, the non-application of the Directive within the time limit, but also that the exclusions and exceptions have been due to criteria which are not always clear. Therefore, transposition, by means of collective agreement, has not always been accompanied by the desired success for this instrument of social dialogue. The amendments presented by Mr Pérez Álvarez were aimed at highlighting and providing a remedy for these shortcomings and the amendments I am going to mention now have the same aim. Amendment No 1, because the confusion between the concepts of ‘exclusion’ and ‘exception’, which are always in the singular, must not become an opportunity to sidestep the mandatory nature of the directive. Amendment No 2, proposing an additional clarifier, which is not intended to replace, but to clarify and extend the content of the paragraph, also by means of concepts and definitions which guarantee the application of the Directive, faithful to the idea that things should be judged by what they are and not what they are called. We believe it is important to expressly highlight these two points for the sake of improving the living and working conditions of workers. All of this must done in accordance with Article 31 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, “Fair and just working conditions”. Firstly, that “Every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity”, and secondly, that “Every worker has the right to limitation of maximum working hours, to daily and weekly rest periods and to an annual period of paid leave”. Both aspects – health at work and working times – are clearly linked, and all of this is aimed at a more just society governed by the respect for the individual and collective rights of workers. Madam President, I should first like to explain that I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Mr Manuel Pérez Álvarez, who has been unable to reach the House as yet. I must congratulate the rapporteur on her report. In our view, the principle of free movement of persons between Member States is as important as the principles like the free movement of goods or of services. It could even be deemed more important than the latter. The free movement of persons differs from the other principles referred to in that it may be restricted, prevented or subject to conditions if the right to social security of persons moving within the European Union are not respected. Article 34 in Chapter IV of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, entitled Solidarity, lays down clearly the right to protection in a range of cases. These include maternity, illness, industrial accidents, dependency, old age and loss of employment, in accordance with Community law and national laws and practices. Article 34 also lays down that everyone residing or moving legally within the European Union is entitled to social security benefits and social advantages in accordance with Community law and national laws and practices. We see the guiding principles of the regulation as being equality of treatment for citizens of other states and for national workers, regardless of whether the workers are self-employed or not, aggregating contribution periods in various countries if necessary, banning multiple payments and allowing social security to be transferred to other countries. This is what will promote freedom of movement and family reunification. It follows that we believe the proposed regulation should be welcomed. It will facilitate more widespread support and simplify earlier provisions. In addition, it is not intended as a replacement for national legislation. Rather, it aims to coordinate national systems in order to provide a better service and improve the support available to the citizens of Europe. . – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner very much for his information. I would like to say, and this will please the Members waiting to speak on this and other reports, that I am not going to use up the five minutes which the Presidency has granted me. Firstly, I would like to say that the protocol agreed between Guinea and the European Union is beneficial to both parties. I believe that this is an important conclusion, above all with a view to the negotiation of the next Agreement. The previous protocol, which has now been extended, is the eighth in the series since the two parties signed the fisheries agreement in 1983. This extension includes the same fishing opportunities and the same conditions for 2003. The truth is that we expected to have an assessment report beforehand on the situation of the populations, which, for technical reasons relating to the vessel which would have to carry out this type of investigation, could not be produced. However, and now that the Commissioner has confirmed that this information will be available soon, we expected this information to be available during this year; because the results of that investigation are the ones which will allow us to verify whether or not the objectives and conditions for the signature of this agreement have been fulfilled. And one of these conditions is the reduction in the global fishing effort in the waters under Guinean jurisdiction. This condition is based on the cautionary principle introduced for the first time in the protocol of 2001 and whose aim is to guarantee the recovery of certain fishing grounds within its jurisdictional waters. By means of that assessment, the delay of which has led to this extension, the Commission will decide on a subsequent negotiation, but this time, also according to what the Commissioner has said, with a considerably longer period of time. My two amendments simply expressed, on the one hand, our dissatisfaction at not having been able to carry out the scheduled evaluation of resources, which justifies this one-year extension and, on the other, our criticism of the fact that this consultation has been communicated to Parliament so late, because it is no longer possible to issue an opinion before the payment of the financial compensation of some EUR 3 million which has already been paid at the end of June. Furthermore, I consider it particularly useful for this House to be able to obtain more information relating to the implementation of the specific measures to which almost 50% of the financial compensation in this agreement has been directed. This financial compensation and these measures demonstrate the European Union's interest in guaranteeing, beyond legitimate support for the fishing activities of Community ships, the sustainable development of the fisheries sector of the Republic of Guinea and greater control over the implementation of the measures laid down in the protocol. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the Commissioner has informed us that the next agreement will be negotiated for five years, because I believe this is the best way to offer ship owners, companies and professionals in the sector a framework for safety and reliability, which will allow them to make investments and rationalise their activities in a more consistent way than they were able to do simply through two-year agreements. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Schroedter, the rapporteur, for her work. I think that this work has been carried out extremely well. I would also like to thank her for her willingness to enter into dialogue with the other political groups when compromise formulas have needed to be reached in the face of this avalanche of amendments – and perhaps there are more of them than we expected – but which genuinely reflect the importance of the report we are now discussing.  We feel that it is important that the Commission takes account of the conclusions adopted by this Parliament, at least in spirit, because at this stage, it might seem as though what we are doing here is a useless exercise, and nothing but hot air.  The truth of the matter though is that we believe – and this is also shown in the way the conclusions have been drafted – that the Commission must take account of what is adopted by this Parliament, particularly in the face of an interim revision of these directives.  In our amendments, we have stated the importance of the necessary synergies being produced between the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund and Community initiatives, so that their application should be reflected, in the best and most profitable way, by the gradual elimination of disparities between regions and by the creation of jobs which are, when all is said and done, the two central purposes of the funds we are discussing.  In order to achieve a more rapid and efficient boost for attaining these objectives, we think that those who generate employment, the real entrepreneurs and those who really guarantee new sources of employment, that is, businesspeople, must participate in this initiative. Small and medium-sized businesses, above all, need to take part in the distribution of these funds. If they do not, if businesspeople feel marginalised, if entrepreneurs cannot take part, not only in managing but also in receiving these funds, we will have missed an opportunity to attain our objectives more rapidly. Also, in order to attain our objectives, to overcome the disparities between regions and to seek out sources of employment, it is crucial to give our complete support to new technologies, to transport and communications networks and to renewable energies. All of this must be done – I repeat – with the participation of private business, which, by uniting its efforts with those of public administrations, but complementing them, never obstructing or excluding them, will lead to the creation of wealth in society and of jobs. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to thank the staff for their excellent work and assistance in drawing up this report, and also those responsible in the Commission for their willingness to help on this matter and, above all, I would like to show my appreciation for the impressive desire for dialogue shown by my fellow members in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which has enabled us to draw up this report with several important proposals that have been reached by consensus. The Tempus programme – or, in this specific case, the extension of the scope of the Tempus programme proposed by the Council – should be seen as part of a strategy seeking to bolster dialogue and understanding between the peoples and cultures of the European Union and the Mediterranean. Some people have been asking why we need to extend an existing programme when we could set up a new one. This is a good question, which is easy to answer. If we extend a tried and tested programme, and we manage to avoid the usual problems inherent in getting a new programme off the ground, we can draw on the experience and know-how of Tempus, incorporating the improvements that have been made to it over time and which will no doubt encourage rapid diversification in the range of university studies available as well as cooperation between Euro-Mediterranean partners. As you are all aware, the Tempus programme takes its inspiration from the chain of events that have taken place since the fall of the Berlin wall in 1989. This programme was set up in 1990 to meet the need to reform higher education in the Central and Eastern European countries while also encouraging Europe-wide mobility in university studies. The programme was financed by the PHARE budgetary framework. In 1993 it was extended to include the New Independent States such as Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Moldova and the Russian Federation, amongst others. The second phase of this trans-European cooperation scheme for higher education affected a total of thirteen partner countries for a four-year period and since 1997 the Central and Eastern European countries preparing for accession have gradually been abandoning the Tempus programme to take part in Socrates, the Community’s general education programme. However, the Council decision was amended to extend the life of Tempus II for a further two years. This decision laid down that the Commission should undertake an assessment to consider the programming of Tempus. The Commission is now proposing to open up Tempus III to the Mediterranean partners in order to meet the needs in that region for cooperation in the sphere of higher education. The Tempus programme will thus encompass the following partners: Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, the Palestinian Authority, Syria, and Lebanon. The purpose of cooperation in the sphere of education is to strengthen the organisational machinery that will enable universities to continue their cooperation beyond the life and scope of the assistance granted under cooperation programmes. In this way we shall place the EC institutions and institutions in partner countries and territories in a better position to develop and consolidate partnerships that could in turn generate a multiplier effect beyond the participating institutions and have a lasting impact on education systems, which is basically what we are dealing with. In addition, and this is important, by widening the range of participants beyond the traditional academic community to secure the involvement of political leaders and civil society in general, we shall be encouraging a kind of cooperation in higher education that could play a key role in changing attitudes by affording an opportunity for the young generations to compare their respective values and national cultures. The intention is to combine purely academic matters with moves to strengthen the working of civil society in Mediterranean partner countries and to help promote better understanding of the different cultures and respect for human rights and minorities in these countries. Various assessments have shown that the Tempus programme is perceived as an invaluable means of fostering mutual understanding. That is the goal on which participants must focus when they plan their activities. These are the main amendments to the Tempus programme for Mediterranean partners that we fully support in this report. There are no significant amendments to the rest of the programme. Therefore, I would emphasise the main objectives of the Tempus programme as follows: to pave the way for the development of higher education, to respond more effectively to the socio-economic and cultural needs of the eligible countries, and to promote cross-cultural understanding, , and the development of flourishing, free civil societies. These aims are to be achieved by means of Joint European Projects (JEPs), which constitute the most important inter-university cooperation arrangements under the Tempus programme. As well as JEPs, the programme provides grants to teachers and researchers, amongst others, for a variety of complementary activities designed to further the overall objectives of the programme. In this report our intention was to highlight the need for the Tempus programme to be extended much further than the university community, so that this, which will of course continue to be its central pivot, will contribute to the transformation of civil society. – Mr President, I would firstly like to state that I am speaking on behalf of my Mr Fernández Martín, who is not able to attend. I would like to make clear that among the wide range of regional associations or groups of countries with which the European Union maintains relations, the group of overseas countries and territories, the PTOMs to use the French term, is certainly the most heterogeneous of all. In actual fact, they are grouped together more for what they are not than for what they are. Hence the special merit offered, in my opinion, by the proposed Council Decision and the report which Mr Fruteau has produced in relation to it. Generally speaking, I agree with the rapporteur’s proposals, although I would certainly express some of them somewhat differently. However, I would like to announce that my group will vote in favour of them. The rapporteur proposes a series of measures which attempt to strengthen the association system which has linked the PTOMs to the Union since 1991, by stating that on this tenth anniversary of the said agreement, the Union should be more ambitious with regard to the most distant territories of the continent. I must point out that the PTOMs as a whole, and each one of them in particular, do not form part of the territory of the Union. Their inhabitants have European citizenship (French, British, Dutch or Danish, as the case may be) but the territories in which they live do not form part of the European Union itself – in the case of Greenland, for example, its citizens voted in a referendum to leave what we then called the European Communities; in the case of New Caledonia, in accordance with a plan drawn up with the French authorities, they have also begun a procedure which will lead them, in a few years’ time, to join the group of ACP countries. And I could cite in this way further examples of specific cases, almost as many as there are PTOM countries and territories. This heterogeneity is evident in many other respects and the most noteworthy of these is their sparse and irregularly distributed population. As the rapporteur rightly stresses, the population of the twenty overseas territories hardly exceeds one million inhabitants and three of them, the Dutch Antilles, French Polynesia and New Caledonia, have more than 150 000 inhabitants each, so these three territories alone account for almost half of the total population. Therefore, when almost three years ago we discussed the report produced at the time by our colleague Blaise Aldo, we wanted to place special emphasis on the development of the PTOMs’ trade relations with the ACP countries close to them and in some cases, such as that of the Caribbean, with equally close outermost regions. However, INTERREG did not meet the expectations raised as a basis for developing these trading relations. Perhaps this could be attempted again now with INTERREG III, and I agree with the rapporteur that the development of the PTOMs should be promoted through a specific fund to simplify the procedures for linking it to the EDF or to Cotonou – although I know that the Commission has its own opinion in this respect. In conclusion, I request an oral amendment which I hope can be accepted. In the first paragraph of the explanatory statement the rapporteur expressly mentions the seven outermost regions of the European Union, stating that they opted for full integration into the respective Member States, former colonial powers. That is not correct. The Azores, Madeira and the Canary Islands did not have any colonial status at any time in their history, which is why they should be expressly excluded from this statement by the rapporteur, and I hope that the House and the rapporteur himself can accept this request. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I think we are all convinced that we have an obligation and a duty to protect the environment and contribute to sustainable development with an environmental policy that has seen its importance increased subsequent to the Treaty of Amsterdam. I agree with the Commission on drawing up more stringent standards on noise and also on establishing transitional provisions to satisfy the needs of the regions that are confronted with noise pollution problems. We also believe that it is essential for us to participate as one in the 33rd assembly of the ICAO in autumn 2001, speaking with one voice because, without a doubt, there is strength in unity and on subjects as important as the tightening of standards against noise it is vital. It would also be important to ask the Commission to present proposals for the introduction of economic incentives aimed at achieving a reduction of the negative effects on the environment. Naturally, what we do not agree on is the unilateral establishment of tax on kerosene, as a unilateral decision without the backing of the ICAO would have a minimal impact on the environment, would create legal problems, would damage competition among European airlines and would consequently affect users, who would see their tariffs rise. It would also be essential that, before taking any measures with regard to the adoption of taxes on the aviation industry, a study should be carried out on the costs and benefits that these measures would imply. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise the importance of efficient management in the aviation industry in reducing pollutants, placing the emphasis on improving airport management and clearly supporting the creation of a single European sky, by means of which we would also undoubtedly contribute to reducing environmental pollution. Mr President, firstly, and like other Members, I would like to congratulate Mrs Fourtou on her excellent work and also express my regret at the speech by Mr Turmes, who should not really worry about intellectual property since he has only come to criticise Mrs Fourtou and her relatives and has not been able to remain in this Chamber for the whole debate. I believe that the fact that certain Members of this House have family relatives – and I would be grateful if Mr Turmes would remain in the House – does not prevent them from acting in it, particularly since what we are discussing, this Directive in the field of enforcing intellectual property rights, does not exclusively affect right holders, but all consumers. It is also we consumers who have to ensure that the protection of intellectual property rights is guaranteed, because we want the products we buy to be original and authentic and we do not want to be deceived by people who violate intellectual property rights. I therefore believe that to try to use Mrs Fourtou’s relatives to discredit her work is not worthy of a Member of this House. There are two aspects which have been fully debated this morning. One of them relates to commercial purposes. It is true that we have modified the Commission's proposal, which was restricted to acts carried out for commercial purposes. We need to go a little further; I believe that the rapporteur’s proposal and the compromise amendments are balanced, and that we had to ensure that anybody carrying out any act against industrial or intellectual property could be prosecuted, whether that act was for commercial purposes or not. In reply to Mr Fiori, who spoke before me, the inclusion of industrial property is important, and in the case of Spain in particular, since the Spanish legislation in the field of trademarks and patents is considered industrial property rather than intellectual property. The definition has therefore been extended to both. With regard to the procedure, mentioned by Mr Cappato and Mr Berenguer, what we intended is something very important: to obtain a directive which could enter into force before 1 May 2004. It is therefore true that Mrs Fourtou has had to make certain efforts to reach agreement and that the proposal we are voting on today in this Parliament is not exactly the same as the one voted for in committee. Nevertheless, many of the aspects which were approved in the committee are included in what we are voting on today, apart from the two points I have referred to: commercial purposes and patents. There are many other aspects that we have revised from the Commission's initial proposal, such as, for example, the reduction of procedures and costs for the applicant, in order to speed up and guarantee respect for their intellectual property rights; the simplification of the guarantees to be provided by the applicant in the event of defending their industrial or intellectual property rights; the establishment of compensation in the event of an infringement of industrial or intellectual property and, finally, considerations relating to the destruction of objects used for counterfeiting or the counterfeit objects themselves. These are other aspects of the Commission's proposal that we have modified and which, as the Commission has said, make this directive sufficiently balanced for the times we are living in. Madam President, I would like firstly, of course, to congratulate the rapporteur on her initiative, and also congratulate the Commissioner on her speech – and I have taken the liberty of taking some notes on her speech, which I will quote from her when talking about cultural diversity on other occasions. I am speaking in this Chamber as a Spaniard, as a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and as a Basque. I come from a country in which we have our own language, a native language in addition to Castilian, which is Basque, and which has a culture that goes back millennia, as does our language. I agree with the rapporteur on the importance of preserving linguistic diversity. I also agree that we must monitor the treatment of minority languages, including autochthonous languages. In an increasingly united Europe, in an increasingly globalised world, we must pay special attention to cultural diversity. The wealth of Europe – and what differentiates us from other regions of the world, as the Commissioner has said – undoubtedly lies in our cultural diversity, and we must try to export that model. We must prevent the Union from becoming a means for standardisation, and I would like to point out that the preamble to the draft Constitution spoke of a ‘Europe united in diversity’. Nevertheless, we must prevent the appropriation of cultural and linguistic diversity for political purposes. We must not accept the idea that the defence of language or culture, which belongs to all of us, can be used as a political weapon, a missile, or even a means for possible discrimination or division between us. Neither language nor the defence of language can be a reason for discrimination. Let us remember that this aspect is taken up in the draft Constitution. We must respect cultural and linguistic diversity, it is true, but we must not impose it. Respect for diversity also consists of respecting those people who speak another language. Euskera must be preserved in the Basque Country, without question, but we must not impose it or discriminate against those who do not speak it. Certain nationalist parties who have tried to use language as a political tool have moved on from racial nationalism to linguistic nationalism. I believe that culture is the inheritance of all of us, we must all defend it and nobody must appropriate it for themselves. Please allow me to end by quoting from the preamble to the Constitution which reads, ‘while remaining proud of their own national identities and history, the peoples of Europe are determined to transcend their ancient divisions and, united ever more closely, to forge a common destiny’. –  The truth is that I would like it if Mr Ortuondo Larrea did not always bring up national concerns in this Parliament and if he could make contributions to European integration, which is why I believe we are all here. Mr President, I would naturally like to begin by congratulating the Commission on its proposal and the rapporteur for the work she has done, both from a technical point of view and in terms of cooperation with other Members, since it has allowed us to incorporate some of our proposals into her report. There is no question that the enlargement of the European Union’s territory represents a step forward in the management of external borders. The European Union is an ambitious and open integration project which has already gone beyond mere economic objectives as its objectives have broadened and, as the Member States have transferred more and more of their competences to it, the challenges it faces have also increased. Since 1995, when the Schengen Agreement was adopted, there has been an increasing desire to remove the borders and barriers between the States party to it. The free movement of people, immigration and asylum, and the management of external borders are policies of the highest priority, and this has undoubtedly been reflected in the conclusions of certain Councils, such as Seville, Tampere or Thessaloniki. One of the objectives of Community policy is the control of immigration in order to promote, on the one hand, the integration of immigrants and also, on the other, the safe return to countries of origin in the case of illegal immigration. In this regard, the control of the external borders of the States party to the Schengen Agreement is essential to achieving these objectives. If under this regulation we manage to unify an automatic stamping system for travel documents of third-country nationals we will make the procedures relating to the management of external borders more coherent and simple. One of the European Union’s successes has undoubtedly been to remove barriers so that citizens can move freely throughout all of its countries without facing different treatment. If we want to improve security and make the European Union a more secure region, we must also improve the functioning of our external borders and, in particular, the Schengen borders. With regard to the report by Mr Angelilli, our group will vote in favour of the proposal but, nevertheless, we have called for a separate vote on Amendment No 13 because we believe the Commission's proposal is better than that of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. Therefore, on that point alone we will have a separate vote and we will vote against. I believe this Regulation to be a step forward in terms of controlling illegal immigration and that in this way we will be able to move forward towards a common immigration policy. Mr President, we have been reminded a number of times this morning that this is the last debate on the area of freedom, security and justice to be held during this term. Further, 1 May is fast approaching. Pursuant to the provisions in the Treaty of Nice, certain parts of the Treaty are due to be amended on that date. Ten new countries will join the Union on 1 May too. Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union states that the Union is based on the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is also based on the rule of law, common to all Member States. I believe that over and above guaranteeing that the Member States abide by these principles, it is important for the European Union as a whole to act as guarantor of respect for such freedom and of compliance with the rule of law. The citizens of Europe certainly support such an approach. They are constantly demanding more Europe. They hope Europe will be more than simply a large market. They want Europe to be safer, freer and more just. I come from a country suffering the scourge of terrorism. In my homeland, some of the principles laid down in Article 6 are flouted. The terrorist group ETA deprives many of my fellow citizens of freedom of speech, freedom of action, and freedom to engage in politics. ETA and its followers restrict our liberty and threaten the rule of law. The scourge of terrorism can only be eliminated by working within the rule of law, in cooperation with the judicial authorities and the police. In this day and age, terrorism can no longer be deemed a local problem. It is a global threat to us all, the European Union included. Clearly, the implementation of the European arrest warrant, the drafting of commonly recognised European lists of terrorist organisations and the definition of the crime of terrorism do represent major achievements. Together, they are helping to build the area of freedom, security and justice, and contributing to the fight against terrorism. This fight can only be won through determination, respect and the implementation of the rule of law and of all the mechanisms available under the law. Negotiation or ambiguity will not help to defeat terrorism. Terrorism is an attack on democracy and can only be repulsed by more democracy. Considerable progress has been made in the area of freedom, security and justice where the victims are concerned. In recent years this House awarded a prize to organisations defending victims of terrorism. Turning to Mr Ribeiro e Castro’s report, I should first like to congratulate its author. Congratulations are also due to the Commissioner. He has made a tremendous effort to contribute to the creation of this area of freedom, security and justice over the last few years. I should like to highlight some of the issues raised in the aforementioned report. It is incumbent on all of us to press for framework decisions to be transposed into the legal systems of Member States at the earliest opportunity. As stated in the report, it is unacceptable for differences in the implementation of legal provision in the Member States to result in unequal treatment for European citizens. Europol and police cooperation in Europe are another important tool in the fight against terrorism. Greater cooperation is called for in this regard too. I am sure it will not be long before the new Constitutional Treaty becomes a reality. I should like to conclude by saying it is important to use the Constitution as a basis for further development of this area of freedom, security and justice. As stated in the report, the pillar structure should be done away with. It is also necessary to increase the number of decisions taken by a qualified majority. In addition, the Commission’s right to take the initiative and the role of the national parliaments must be strengthened, whilst providing for the involvement of this House. Unquestionably, the European Union has to guarantee freedom for all its citizens. The fight against terrorism will certainly guarantee that the Union becomes ever more just and free. Mr President, I would like firstly, as other Members have done, to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Manders, and the rapporteur for my group, Mrs Niebler, who has not just been able to reach agreements with Mr Manders, but also to seek consensus within the group and also to inform us punctually of what was happening with this proposed Directive. As has rightly been said, we are dealing with a really important Directive. We are all aware of the importance of environmental protection and the fact that this Directive reflects the ‘polluter pays’ principle. However, we must also be aware that polluters are often companies, and we must ensure their survival within our economy. I therefore believe that there are two important principles: the first, which Mr Gargani has mentioned, is not to promote the relocation of our companies towards other markets, and the second is to find the greatest possible degree of harmonisation within the European Union. I believe that all the countries of the Union must comply with this Directive, and it must oblige the Member States equally: we must not allow each Member State to apply it differently. The scope must be as broad as possible, as laid down in the common position, and, with regard to the possible exceptions for operators with regard to compliance with any previous legislation, I believe it is true that Amendments Nos 9 and 16 are excessive, as has been said here, and would allow some companies to escape their duty to pay. But it is true that we must seek some mechanism according to which the fact that companies comply with the legislation in force is considered a mitigating factor. With regard to the reparation measures, we must allow the Member States to be able to cover the damage created, as reparation measures, as laid down in Amendments Nos 10, 11 and 12 approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. Finally, with regard to the time period during which a company can be held responsible, I believe that the 30 years laid down in the common position is an excessive period. The environmental contingency it would represent for companies seems to me to be excessive, and I support Mrs Thyssen’s amendment, which would reduce this time period to 10 years: it makes much more sense to reduce the time period during which companies must be held responsible for the environmental damage caused. – Mr President, there is no need to insist on the importance today of the information society for everybody, both for the public sector and for companies and citizens. I will focus on just two of the reports under discussion today. With regard to the Commission’s initiative on the reuse of public sector documents, there are more and more companies in Europe who make use of information from the public sector and who reuse it. We must guarantee that the conditions for access to this information are the same throughout Europe. The price for this information must be proportional – without question – to the cost of production, but on the other hand we cannot oblige the administration – as the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has said – to produce all that information if it is not relevant or necessary. With regard to the Council’s proposed decision on the monitoring of eEurope and the dissemination of good practices and security on the networks, I would like to highlight two aspects. The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, which produced the opinion for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, which produced the main report, has also stated that it is necessary not just to promote all exchanges of good practices between public and private professionals, but that the Commission should also fund information and awareness campaigns on the issue of the security of networks. I would like to congratulate the Commission on its initiative today to present a single system for security of the networks. It is clear that our work and our economies are increasingly based on the information society and it is therefore important to reduce the risk of insecurity on networks. We must guarantee both safe access and the protection of the privacy of the data of those who access the public sector and the networks in general. In order to promote an electronic economy in the field of enterprises, it is also essential to promote a culture based on the entrepreneurial spirit and to stimulate greater participation by companies in the information society. While in Lisbon, as other Members have said, the strategic objective was set on turning the knowledge-based economy into the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world, the objective of the information society is undoubtedly an important and essential driving force. Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and point out that I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and on behalf of a fellow Member who has not been able to speak. There can be no question that the PPE-DE Group has always defended the fundamental rights and values that we in the European Union represent. The European Union promoted by the founding fathers in the 1950s was not intended to be an economic union, but a union based on certain fundamental values which we must guarantee, as the rapporteur has said. My group largely supports his report, although several amendments have been tabled, but we will vote in favour of the proposal the rapporteur has made in this report. I am delighted that in Nice some of these values were incorporated into the constitution and that provision was made for establishing a mechanism under the terms of Article 7 in order to guarantee that values are respected within the European Union. I come from a country which has been attacked by terrorists over the last 30 years, and which, furthermore, was savagely attacked on 11 March, and, as the rapporteur has said in his speech, terrorism can only be tackled by means of more values, more democracy and more fundamental rights and the European Union must, therefore, be capable of guaranteeing respect for these values within the Union, in order more effectively to combat terrorism, attacks on our values and attacks on European values. I would like to say finally – in relation to the rapporteur's report – that we share the principles expressed in it – trust, priority, equality and publicity – which can allow us to make progress on establishing a mechanism which prevents certain States from failing to respect the values which are so important to defend in the European Union, and in this very Parliament more than anywhere else. We also support his proposal to establish an interinstitutional mechanism to promote dialogue between Parliament and the Council as from the next legislature. – Mr President, in order to achieve legislation in the field of immigration at Community level we should pay particular attention to the positive effects of immigration, something we are debating here today. I come from a country – Spain – from which, until a few years ago, many citizens emigrated in search of work and today we are a country into which, thanks to our growth and stability, we receive many immigrants in search of work, often honourable work, who undoubtedly make a positive contribution to our companies and who often carry out work which our citizens reject. The current reality, with migratory flows which are speeding up all the time, is reflected every day in the Spanish press. We see thousands of Moroccans and Sub-Saharan Africans arriving on our territory looking for work. In view of this reality, which is not confined to Spain, we must look for a way to control and regulate the situation, in order to prevent the growing networks trafficking in immigrants. The fight against illegal immigration requires the regulation of legal immigration. If there are employment opportunities but we do not allow the legal entry of immigrants, we will be promoting illegal immigration, and with it work which is often sub-human, dishonest and sometimes even verging on extortion. I therefore welcome the Commission’s proposal since it promotes a coordinated economic migration policy. However, as other rapporteurs from my group have said, we must maintain the Member States’ competence to regulate how many immigrants they can receive to cover the work possibilities. We must be prudent. The admission of immigrants into our labour market may become a problem in the future when the situations of each of our countries change and our labour markets have higher unemployment rates than the current ones. We cannot provide direct access to the labour market for illegal immigrants, particularly those who entered legally, but who are now in our territory illegally, people desperate to find work. This would undoubtedly lead to exploitation by many employers and the extortion I mentioned earlier. We must improve all the possible mechanisms for the employment of immigrants from their countries of origin. We must give employers the opportunity to employ these immigrants so that the relationship between the immigrants in the State of origin and the employers is as fluid as possible. – Mr President, I would like firstly, of course, to congratulate the Commission on this proposal – and its team, which has had the patience to discuss each of the amendments with all of us. I believe this is laudable, because it does not happen very often and I wanted to mention it here. I would also like to congratulate Mr Zappalà on the work he has done, on having to endure the enormous number of amendments, and also on his speech in plenary, which has clarified things. There is no question that this is an extremely important Directive in terms of making progress on free movement, and I agree with the words of Mrs Thors, who said that it cannot be easier to establish companies than it is for individuals to establish themselves when they wish to carry out a profession. The free movement of professionals within the Union is vital, and I am delighted that we are also talking about the recognition of professional qualifications for all professions, and not just some of them. I believe that the professionals which we sometimes call intellectuals, engineers or those with a high level of qualifications, have as much right as those with lesser qualifications. It is true that there have been many controversial points. I believe that the division between the free provision of services and freedom of establishment according to the sixteen weeks criterion was very difficult to justify. I believe that, in this regard, we should establish, as we have done in committee, a rule for each profession, since a tour guide is not the same as an engineer when they go to another country to provide a service for a few weeks. We must find a balance between freedom of movement and guaranteeing the quality of service, as well as fair competition between the people exercising a profession within a Member State and people who come from another country to exercise it. There are other aspects which I believe to be particularly important, such as establishing special characteristics for each of the professions and certain exceptions like the ones we have established – and I would mention the case of notaries, for example. Specifically with regard to engineers, I too, as an engineer, would like to point out that the amendments we have presented jointly with Mr Harbour – from No 192 to No 196 – clearly establish those professional levels – from one to five – and there are other amendments which I will support, together with Mr Harbour, aimed at specifically defining the profession of engineer. I believe that some of the aspects introduced by Mr Zappalà are premature, as has been said in this House, and I would ask that a common platform be established for engineers. Mr President, it is not easy to speak following Mr Cashman’s speech, and I would firstly like to congratulate him on having had the idea of producing this own-initiative report, on the way he has drawn it up and on achieving the unanimous support of his committee. I would also like to congratulate the Commission on announcing that it is going to propose a services directive and simplify some of the procedures necessary for free movement – in this case of mortal remains  and we eagerly await the presentation of this proposal by the Commission. I believe this issue is of particular importance. It is said that societies are measured in terms of their respect for their elderly people, and even more in terms of their respect for their mortal remains. I believe it is our obligation to make as much progress as possible in simplifying as far as we possibly can the procedures necessary – which affect the families so much  for the free movement of mortal remains within the Union in the event that death takes place far from their places of origin. Furthermore, I believe that Mr Cashman – if you will allow me a little humour on such a serious issue  is showing his great qualities as a politician, because he is showing concern for people who are never again going to be able to vote for him. I believe that the fact that certain countries of the European Union have not signed the Strasbourg Agreement, as the rapporteur has quite rightly said, obliges us even more as the European Union – in view of the imminent entry of ten new countries – to establish certain rules in order to simplify as far as possible the procedures necessary for the free movement of mortal remains within the European Union. – Mr President, at the Seville European Council, three fundamental aspects of the Union’s immigration policy were specified: firstly, the necessary management of migratory flows, in cooperation with countries of origin; secondly, taking account of the integration of legal immigrants; and finally, opening up negotiations of readmission agreements at European level. With regard to the first point, initiatives such as the proposal for a Directive on the free movement of citizens or family regrouping, or those relating to the conditions for entry for work purposes for immigrant or third-country nationals, should be approved by this Parliament as soon as possible and with the greatest possible consensus, in order to demonstrate that we are in favour of a single immigration policy. With regard to the second point, the success of an immigration policy undoubtedly depends on the integration measures which must accompany it. Therefore, reception and integration must be considered as an essential part of the general immigration policy and this means agreed action, not only on the part of the European Union, but also on the part of national and regional governments, civil society and the immigrants themselves. We must take advantage of the generally positive impact which legal immigrants have on our economies and ensure an appropriate balance between the rights of third-country citizens and the rights of receiving communities. I am happy to support the measures of the Danish Presidency with regard to readmission agreements. I would point out that in one of the Convention’s working groups it was said that the negotiation of readmission agreements with third countries has been shown to be more effective when carried out at European level. Another important point is the creation of an integrated system of management of external borders. In this regard, I would also praise the Danish Presidency, which wished to promote a rapid and secure exchange of information between the Member States, with a view to strengthening cooperation on the control of borders. In this regard, it is appropriate to mention the report adopted last week in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on this issue. I would like to end with a quote from Mr Vitorino, which I have often used: ‘immigration is neither a problem nor a solution, it is a phenomenon of a clearly human, social, economic and political nature’. Mr President, I have requested the floor following the speech by Mr Gorostiaga. It is difficult to understand his approach, since he is confusing a film with a provision by a government which intends to guarantee democracy. And, furthermore, you say this as a representative of a political party which is illegal in Spain, which defends terrorists and kills those of us who defend our ideas. Mr Gorostiaga, your approach is totally out of line with what we in this House defend: freedom of expression, which you do not defend in any of your considerations and even less in your speech this afternoon. . –  Mr President, I should first like to thank Mrs Roure, the rapporteur, for her hard work. In particular, I should like to pay tribute to the great effort she made to reach a consensus across the political groups. As stated previously, this Commission initiative supplements others regulating immigration for reasons of employment, self-employment or otherwise. It also supplements the directive on family reunification. In so doing it contributes to approximation of national legislation in this area, as recognised at the Tampere European Council. Students enjoy ever-greater mobility. They are always on the go, and third-country student exchanges certainly contribute to our cultural enrichment. It would therefore also be beneficial to promote exchange visits by European Union students to third countries, although this is not the aim of this directive. It is undoubtedly beneficial for Europe if third-country students undertake part of their studies here. Europe certainly gains, but it is also important to ensure those students receive the best training so that they will be able to make a useful contribution to the development of their countries of origin. Whenever there is discussion of immigration from developing countries it is always stated that promoting growth and development is the best way of combating illegal immigration. I therefore share the concern expressed by the rapporteur. I believe the European Union must grant entry to immigrants wishing to study here. It is however essential for those students to return to their countries of origin on completion of their studies. They should be able to put the knowledge they have acquired to good use. We must not be party to creaming off the most able individuals from developing countries. Turning to the entry requirements we are currently considering, namely specific requirements to regulate immigration for study purposes or for volunteering, we should take account of the circumstances of each Member State. This is stated in the Commission’s proposal. A monitoring system is called for, to help combat illegal trafficking networks and exploitation in the workplace. Consequently, I support the Commission’s proposal to grant Member States authority to order the expulsion of a migrant for reasons of public order, or to refuse to renew a residence permit. Immigration for study purposes needs to be regulated to prevent ghost centres from springing up. The latter could then set up illegal immigration networks. It is important to ascertain that the higher education or vocational training institutions are legally recognised. In addition, these centres should be in a position to guarantee quality learning for the students. In the case of apprentices, it is also important to ensure that they can gain practical experience in specialised centres or companies. Care should be taken to ensure that entry permits for apprentices do not become a cover for illegal employment. The centres need to be properly equipped too. Turning to residence permits, it is certainly appropriate to be able to renew a residence permit for student exchanges when all the conditions have been met. This would allow students to complete more than one academic year in the same institution. The period of residence granted could even exceed the duration of the studies, though as Mrs Roure stated, a limit must nonetheless be set. My group tabled an amendment providing for a period of residence of one year if the higher education course was of nine months’ duration. That is the usual length of an academic year In addition, safeguards or restrictions applying to students who fail to make satisfactory progress in their studies must also be put in place. Failure to do so would amount to opening the floodgates to students whose sole intention was to come to work. There would be little incentive to make good progress on the courses of study. My group has therefore also tabled an amendment allowing Member States to reduce the period in which students may work if they do not make satisfactory progress in their studies. The rapporteur has included in the report a number of amendments aimed at ensuring that this directive covers third-country nationals who are unpaid researchers. I am not opposed to the idea. It might however be appropriate to have a specific Commission initiative on the subject. Nonetheless, it is certainly the case that unpaid research and vocational training could be dealt with in a similar way. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs McCarthy, and the rapporteur from our group, Mr Wuermeling, for the effort they have made to reach a consensus and, in the case of Mr Wuermeling, to explain the complicated proposal within our group. The protection of computer-implemented inventions by means of patents is not a new problem and it must be made clear, as other Members have said in this House, that there is no intention to establish rules allowing computer programs to be patented, but to extend the classic doctrine of patents to computer-implemented inventions. We want to apply the existing arrangements for patents to computer-implemented inventions. It is clear that we must expressly exclude, as certain amendments do, the patentability of inventions solely because they use a computer. With regard to the scope, I would like to focus on a very specific aspect: that of interoperability. Interoperability and communication between programmes should be excluded from the scope of this Directive. This aspect should be reviewed in a few years time. The exclusive use which the law allows holders of patents obliges the holder to explain their invention so that it may be comprehensible to an average expert in the field. I believe that in this case as well we must stress this aspect and oblige the person applying for a patent to sufficiently explain the object of that patent, though perhaps not until the publication of the source code, as Mr Harbour has said. That would be excessive. As I have said, it is especially important in this field to oblige applicants to describe their invention. Finally, many people have criticised this proposal and have said that it may harm small- and medium-sized businesses. However, what we are doing is applying traditional patent law to small- and medium-sized businesses, in the knowledge that patents have increased growth and have made it possible for all types of companies - including small ones – to carry out research and invest in new developments. We are competing today in a globalised market in which the United States and Japan develop many patents and inventions. We cannot be left behind and we must regulate here in Europe as well the possibility of registering computer-implemented inventions as patents. . – Mr President, I should like to thank the House for rejecting this draft directive. This is consistent with the House’s rejection of an earlier draft directive that led to the one before us today. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Manders, and also the shadow rapporteur from my group, Mrs Niebler, for the effort they have made to work together and to confront the pressure from the industry and from governmental organisations. I believe that, at the moment, at a time when there have been numerous disasters in Europe, including the  disaster, we must insist on the polluter pays principle. I will focus on two specific points of this important Directive. With regard to Article 9, which deals with exceptions, it should not be assumed that all exceptions and all authorisations lead to pollution. The establishment of exceptions, such as activities covered by permits, as well as activities covered by the state of the art, correspond to the principle of legal certainty and legitimate confidence, which are being upheld by numerous judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Furthermore, this exception exclusively exempts damage caused by emissions and actions which fall within authorised parameters, and we should remember the principle of the IPPC Directive on the integrated control and prevention of pollution. I therefore believe that Amendment No 37 perfectly covers the activities permitted specifically and explicitly by the laws. With regard to financial guarantees, I believe that this is one of the key points of this report and that we must try to establish some sort of obligatory system of financial guarantees, on the part of the operators, in order to cover the responsibilities stemming from this Directive. Bearing in mind the fear of certain countries that the insurance companies cannot take on this responsibility, the step-by-step approach would undoubtedly allow the financial guarantee to be ensured and the possibility of insuring against environmental damage. The fear that small entrepreneurs may be harmed by the measure would be solved by means of the establishment of a minimum threshold or a minimum insurance. This is an important aspect of this Directive and I believe it is taken up appropriately in Amendment No 92, presented by our group. – Mr President, further to a statement by Mr Gorostiaga last Monday, I wish to make one point clear. Mr Gorostiaga referred to a report by the United Nations Committee Against Torture, and subsequently sent an e-mail to all Members of the House. I shall forward the aforementioned committee’s full report to Members of the House so they can read for themselves the positive comments on action taken in Spain in recent years. A number of adjustments have been made to legislation in order to prevent torture. I should also like to emphasise that in my view it is somewhat surprising that Mr Gorostiaga himself should be condemning torture when he has failed to condemn the sustained attack on human rights we are enduring in the Basque Country. This is particularly true for those of us holding elected office. The most significant torture is actually that perpetrated by ETA terrorists as they murder, blackmail and kidnap. Mr President, I should like to start by congratulating Mr Cashman on his report. I would also like to pay tribute to Mr Cashman’s sustained efforts to promote transparency and access to documents. I have had the opportunity of working with him and serving as rapporteur for the group for other reports regarding access to historical archives. Throughout, Mr Cashman has always impressed me with his great commitment to these issues. I must also join with previous speakers in congratulating Mrs Maij-Weggen and commending her on the example she has set. A few minutes ago she was taking her leave of us outside the Chamber. Nonetheless, she is working to the very end of her time as a Member of the European Parliament, and is back on the floor of the House speaking on a serious issue, namely access to historical archives. I offer her my congratulations. Further, I am grateful to her for serving as a role model for a young politician like myself. All of us working for Community institutions are concerned about access to information. We are also concerned about the image Europe presents to its citizens. We tend to be criticised for being distant. We also receive complaints that Community institutions are hard to understand. In my view, facilitating access to documents is the best way to bring Europe closer to its citizens and enable those citizens to understand us better. I believe a suitable policy on public access to documents will prove a vital tool in bringing the institutions closer to all the citizens. The citizens need to be convinced of the transparency and efficiency of our institutions and even that they actually serve a purpose. As politicians, it is our duty to keep the citizens informed. Further, as European politicians, it is our duty to require the institutions to be as transparent and accessible as possible. The rapporteur congratulated the Community institutions on their recent progress regarding access to documents, and on putting in place the technology required to facilitate access to information for the citizens. I would like to add my voice to his. It is true that much remains to be done. It is also true that our group endorses many of the complaints referred to by Mr Cashman in his report. There is certainly a good deal of work outstanding. Nonetheless, it is important to strike a balance between efficiency in transparency and access to that information on the one hand, and the potential cost of such measures on the other. Allow me to mention an example of a measure I find too expensive. A number of colleagues on the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs asked for video recordings to be made of many parliamentary sittings and committee meetings, and for the recordings to be accessible through the Internet. The cost of this cannot be justified at present, though it might be in the future. I agree with those who advocate that the measures adopted should include the simplification, codification and unification of the registers of the three institutions. I shall now turn to what is perhaps the most controversial point mentioned by the Commissioner, Mrs Maij-Weggen and by the rapporteur himself. It relates to access to Member States’ documents when the latter are acting as individual Member States and not in their capacity as Council members. Mr Cashman’s initial proposal is indeed too ambitious. It is not possible to go that far. Nonetheless, it would be appropriate to draw up some kind of proposal requesting Member States to be just as transparent as Community institutions. The citizens would not understand why a Community document should be easier to access than one originating from their Member State. Consequently, we shall support Mr Cashman’s amendment to his own report tomorrow. I refer to the amendment deleting a few words from section 16 of the report, in the interests of clarity. This is all thanks to Mrs Maij-Weggen’s proposal in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. –  Mr President, I do not know whether Mr Gorostiaga has something to do with this and is also trying to restrict my freedom of speech. I am very happy that Mr Gorostiaga is concerned about the right to freedom of speech and assembly and I hope that from now on he will also be concerned about the representatives of my party and the Socialist Party assassinated by a terrorist group supported by his political group, which thank God is now defunct. I am sure, therefore, that from now on he will also defend the rights of my political party and the Socialist Party to assembly and freedom of speech. It is incredible that you are able to speak in this House following the assassination of two members of the national police force, carried out by the terrorist group that you are unable to condemn. I am able to condemn and regret all the deaths that have occurred, including the deaths of the prisoners, whose rights I recognise, except for the right to restrict our freedom of speech and assassinate us in such a despicable manner. Mr President, I would like to supplement Mr Ortuondo’s question, and remind him that this is not a decision by the Spanish Government, but that it is the Spanish Constitution itself which prevents an autonomous community from holding a referendum unilaterally and requires that any referendum be called by the King, on the proposal of the President of the Government, following authorisation from the Congress of Deputies. That is what our Constitution says. I believe that the question Mr Ortuondo should have asked – although you probably would not answer it either – is whether a person failing to comply with a law can be subject to penalty, which is what the Spanish authority has said or, in this case, the reform of the Spanish Penal Code. .  Mr President, I too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work. This is no mere formality. The rapporteur has made it possible for the opinion of the Committee on Citizens’ Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to be largely incorporated into the work of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. This meant that there was some purpose to our work in the LIBE Committee. Mrs de Palacio endorsed the view expressed in the House previously. It was stated earlier that we are currently surrounded by terrorism and under constant threat from it. Consequently, measures designed to combat this scourge of the twenty-first century are now particularly important. I speak too as a citizen of the Basque country where terrorism is a daily event. Further, the International Diplomatic Conference of the contracting parties to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea is to be commended. It made it clear that any citizen and any form of transport could be attacked. They are all liable to become soft targets. It is also important to bear in mind that the Union is due to take in ten new Member States next year. As enlargement approaches it is imperative for us to strengthen all measures relevant to the fight against terrorism and to the protection of our vessels and ports. In this regard, the committee’s amendments aimed to provide a minor clarification to the Commission’s proposal. The amendments call for all unlawful acts to be covered. I have in mind terrorism, piracy and similar acts. They are especially threatening to the safety of vessels, their cargo, passengers and crew. In the light of recent environmental disasters, we have also endeavoured to strengthen security measures applicable to the transport of cargo containing dangerous substances. Illegal handling of such substances represents a particular hazard both for the environment and human beings. These substances must therefore be included in the scope of application of the agreement. I agree with the rapporteur that a focal monitoring centre for maritime security should be set up. Such a centre would be a point of contact between the Commission and Member States as regards monitoring the measures contained in this regulation. I also agree with the rapporteur on broadening the scope of the European Maritime Safety Agency, to allow it to fulfil its task of inspection and following up the present regulation. This is probably best achieved through a new legislative instrument. It is important for this regulation and the Commission’s communication to come into force at the earliest opportunity. The regulation ought to be in place on 1 July 2004. Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and also thank her for the good relationship she has had with the rapporteur for this group, accepting many of the amendments and proposals we have presented in committee. I agree that this proposal is important, and the creation of this network of liaison officers is important, particularly in view of the fact that we have decided  we have discussed this here many times  on the importance of communication and communication strategy in the countries in which immigration originates, providing information on the means of legal entry and on the dangers and deceptions surrounding illegal immigration. I would like to point out that in this very Parliament we recently approved a resolution on the European Union's information and communication strategy, and that Recital N stated that immigration policy and respect for human rights were considered a priority within the Union’s information policy, and furthermore called on the Commission to make its offices in the countries in which immigration originates partly an antenna for informing these countries of the means for legal access to Europe and of the dangers involved in illegal immigration. I therefore believe that the amendments which have been introduced in this regard into the rapporteur’s report are particularly important, and oblige the Commission to participate, in some way, in the meetings of liaison officers, and provide it with the opportunity to inform citizens of these countries in which immigration originates of the means for legal entry and of the dangers of illegal immigration. On the other hand, I believe that perhaps one of the amendments presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs is rather over the top insofar as it could constitute a first step towards the creation of a European Union foreign service, but it is the case that these liaison officers, with the support of the offices of the Commission in relation to information and coordination, are without doubt a first step towards the creation of this Community immigration policy which we all want to see. In this way, we want the countries in which immigration originates to see Europe as a single region and for the offices of the Commission to act as a coordinator to some extent of the immigration policy which we all want the European Union to have. Finally, I believe it is important  and I wish to address this to the Commissioner  to accept that the countries which do not have representatives in the countries in which immigration originates may delegate that task to liaison officers from another country which does have representation in that country. –  Mr President, I just wanted to announce that yesterday a policeman was murdered in Spain while arresting two members of the terrorist group ETA. I would like this to be noted here in Parliament. – Mr President, I would first like to stress that I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party, as this is a special report, because of the subject, because of its importance and because of something that the rapporteur highlights: it is a report to which there have been very few amendments in committee and none in the plenary sitting, which is by no means usual, particularly with reports from the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and this, Mr President, is due to the rapporteur. It is your report, rapporteur, but all of us, and of course the Group of the European People’s Party, see ourselves in it, which is why I want to highlight two major issues. The first is that, if the European Union faces one challenge at the moment, if we really want to move from a market-centred Europe to a Europe of values and of citizens, that challenge is to build this area of justice. And if this is a big challenge, what can be more important, in this context, than for a rapporteur to take up the great tradition that has built Europe? This great tradition that has led to men and women from different origins, different political ideologies and different parties, placing this general vision, this European vision, this constructive vision, above their individual interests, and combining their efforts in pursuit of a goal. We have before us one of those reports, and I think that this House should be proud to have produced a report which will be the point of reference over the months and years, for the work that awaits the institutions: the Commission, the Council and Parliament. It is a report that, like all great reports, combines vision, realism and ambition. The rapporteur used the word ‘vision’, and I am going to do nothing more than repeat what he said, but this is the essence of the report: it firmly backs mutual recognition. Mutual recognition, which is also based on the principle underpinning the European Union, namely mutual trust between States, which is in turn based on the Member States providing an equivalent level of protection of human rights, and in which they are seen to share the same procedures. Obviously, there are differences, and there are differences that need to be preserved; and that is where the rapporteur’s experience, realism and knowledge of the field come in. I could quote many examples. I have personally learnt a great deal from his thoughts on the scope of dual indictment, which he very rightly extends to dual criminality, and I hope that this will be a subject for discussion in the work that follows. In particular, the rapporteur mentioned the principle of  or double jeopardy and the solution that it offers to this considerable problem. I would also cite Paragraph 22, which refers to the need for common minimum standards for certain aspects of procedural law. As he said, we cannot expect them to be automatically recognised tomorrow without any controls or filters, but we need to move towards the recognition of some common minimum standards that will allow acceptance by means of a very rapid procedure. In other words, the rapporteur says ‘no’ to harmonisation, ‘yes’ to mutual trust and ‘yes’ to mutual recognition, but on some points there will have to be harmonisation, if not unification. I could also quote the comment made by Mr Posselt, that in Europe some conduct needs to be kept outside this context of mutual recognition, because it is based on very different cultural roots, such as euthanasia for example. I think that we have before us an important report. I am sure that it will receive overwhelming support in Parliament, and I hope that the two or three institutions take good note of this report, which without a shadow of a doubt, will be a milestone in this area in which we need to make progress. – Mr President, I have voted against this report. I say this with regret. I have voted against this report for almost the same reasons that Mr Corbett has voted in favour. I have the same objectives: an ambitious Intergovernmental Conference which deals with the real issues and looks to the long term. I believe that this Parliament is sending a confused message to the Intergovernmental Conference through this resolution. Reading it will not give a true idea of the message that Parliament wanted to send in relation to this Intergovernmental Conference. Therefore, Mr President, while I am in absolute agreement with many of the things said in the resolution, I disagree with many others and regret, for example, with regard to an issue as important as the Court of Justice, that the resolution essentially fails to provide for the necessary reform of this institution, nor does it provide suitable clear guidelines in this respect. For all these reasons, I regret, once again, to say that I have voted against. – Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of Gerardo Galeote, signatory, together with General Morillon, of the PPE resolution on this issue. I have arrived late for this debate, but I have had time to listen to some speeches and I believe we should return to the basic issues. I believe there are three basic issues: firstly, terrorism is the great threat to the Rule of Law and to open and democratic societies today; secondly, the United States and Europe share the same vision, the same social organisation and, of course, the idea that respect for human rights is the very cement of our organisation. Thirdly, we must clearly state that, if the European Union flies any flag, it is the flag of respect for human rights. On this basis, we clearly can and must raise our voices and, rather than ask, say, because asking would mean believing that the prisoners in the Guantánamo base are not being treated in accordance with humanitarian principles and the truth is that all the indications suggest that they are. I am not going to enter into the argument about whether or not the Geneva Convention applies to them. We in the European Union must say that, in the case of any doubt, the principles of the Geneva Convention must be applied, but that the Geneva Convention itself lays down a legal basis to resolve all those issues which may endanger the security of the organisation or the prisoners themselves, while a judicial tribunal establishes whether they have the right to protection under the Geneva Convention or not. So far, Mr President, I have the impression that they are being treated absolutely correctly and that therefore this debate is unfocused. This has probably been an error in terms of European public opinion – if not in terms of American public opinion –, a public relations error, because the truth is that it has been the United States itself that has published these photos which so offend our sensibilities. We must clearly continue, and we will continue, to be vigilant, but always on the basis of the idea that we are fighting this war together. –  Mr President, I would like to begin by telling you that I am satisfied with this report, which is the result of a lengthy process in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, a committee that I have had the honour to chair over much of this negotiation, in addition to being rapporteur in this particular instance. Today we are presenting the European Parliament report on the Community patent. I have to tell you, first of all, that in this case the European Parliament only has the competence to present a report. This is the first – I do not really want to call it an anomaly – but, in short, the first issue that, from Parliament’s point of view, I would like to draw your attention to. We are dealing with a proposal from the European Commission that dates from August 2000 – in other words, some time ago – that was accepted by the Lisbon European Council, which stressed the importance of achieving a Community patent before the end of 2001; this importance has once again been highlighted at the Barcelona European Council, and the Council was urged to adopt a political position at the Internal Market Council on 21 May. This characterises a debate that has not been easy, because the adoption of the Community patent is not a trivial issue. This is our second attempt, and I hope and trust that this time we will have a Community patent. We need a Community patent that covers the whole EU, which will complement the European patent and national patents and will be competitive worldwide. These are the three axes that the European Commission took as a reference point and which subsequently the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market took as their starting point. However, for us, Mr President, and above all for the reason that we only have one single report, it was crucial for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market to reach a consensus. I believe we have achieved this. I hope that tomorrow the vote in Plenary will basically support the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market’s position, which is a position we reached after debating and discussing for many hours the following three fundamental issues that are the key elements of this Community patent: Firstly, the role of the national patent authorities. Without a doubt, when we have the Community patent, the role of the national patent authorities will be greatly reduced, except that we trust that they will carry out complementary work. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market’s report includes the possibility for national patent authorities to participate in the first phase of the negotiation of the Community patent – the research phase – provided that they can guarantee a sufficient level of quality. This is the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market’s first point on which consensus was reached. Secondly, the legal question. The Commission proposal is ambitious and has no current legal basis in the Treaty, and it would be based on a provision of the Treaty of Nice that has still not entered into force, consisting of the creation of a centralised Community Court of First Instance. Therefore, Mr President, after much debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has adopted exactly the same approach as the European Commission, without going so far: for there still to be a national Court of First Instance, albeit with many elements that are already communitarised, and I feel that this is a possibility that the Council should follow if we are to have the patent we need. Thirdly, with regard to the procedural languages: the intention of the Commission proposal was to uphold the European patent system, that is to say, to have three procedural languages – English, French and German. As rapporteur, and with reality in mind, given that English is much more than the language of one State of the European Union, that it is the  of research, I proposed the use of English alone. Finally, given that Parliament adovocates cultural and linguistic diversity, we reached a consensus, advocating the Alicante system, that is, to have five procedural languages. I think that in this regard also Parliament is sending an important political signal that should be considered in the Council in order that consensus can be reached. I am saying this in full knowledge of the latest news I have on the Council’s working group. – Mr President, Commissioner, this is not the first time that I have taken the floor in this House to speak in my capacity as a citizen and would like to say that, for me, the most important thing is to speak as a citizen on behalf of the citizens. And normally I have spoken on reports which affected the citizen’s main concerns: the issues of the third pillar, that is, justice and internal affairs. But today, reminding you of something I said here during the last part-session – after Tampere the European citizens have received the message that Europe is no longer just a market – I would like to say loud and clear that, with this strategic document on the internal market which has been presented to this Parliament and which I am speaking about today, the citizen is going to have a clear idea of the coherence of that market and the fact that the ultimate and main protagonist of that market is the citizen. The ultimate and main protagonist of the internal market is the citizen and the small and medium enterprise. Why is there any confusion? It is clear: the internal market is a wonderful achievement, a success story, without any doubt, but it is not perceived as such by the citizens nor small and medium-sized enterprises. Today the impression is still that the internal market is the concern of the multinationals, the major companies, the bureaucrats, Brussels, the technocrats who are far from the concerns of the ordinary people, where many initiatives pile up on top of one another without order or harmony, with no guiding ideas, which, in many cases, are perceived as one more nightmare in the onerous task of living in a developed Community or having a small or medium-sized business. I believe, Mr President, that it is not only a matter of refuting the idea that everything bad in the Member States comes from Brussels and everything good comes from the governments. It is not only that. It is something that goes much further. Until now, there has been a lot of very good legislation with very clear consequences, but it has been done without a strategy. Now the strategy is here and the importance of this strategy is fundamental if we want the citizen to see that the internal market is not just a matter of legislative acts which relate to the four freedoms, but that it affects them fundamentally. Therefore, congratulations to the Commission and, naturally, we offer our unconditional support to this idea which seems to us, in Parliament, to be very interesting and deserves to be developed. Now for our wishes. Firstly, this Parliament wishes to be closely involved with each and every step in the process which is planned for the internal market, with the selection of strategies, the selection of second level objectives and the selection of specific objectives. We also wish to be closely associated with the balance given to legislative and non-legislative actions. We are in favour of non-legislative actions, since often legislation is not necessary given that sometimes “soft law” is enough, but these initiatives should not cause us to lose sight of the fact that we must avoid the false idea of harmonisation and we have to avoid legal insecurity, as well as false expectations about the internal market. The same thing happens with the choice between harmonisation and mutual recognition. We also believe in the need to establish a fair balance and Parliament hopes that its points of view will be fully taken into account. And with regard to the citizens’ more specific ideas, we are very much in agreement with this general strategic objective, but we want the citizens to understand their rights better and above all to be able to exercise them in a clear and concrete way. We want more efficient and clearer systems for the settlement of disputes which would be better if they were extrajudicial as well as judicial, and all the better if self-regulation policies are created to discipline those markets. And, of course, we want the four freedoms to be fulfilled. We want the fourth freedom – the free movement of persons, which stands between the internal market and the policies of justice and internal affairs – to be a reality. We want, above all, Commissioner, to insist on legal security and, to that end, we are calling upon you to develop an initiative – which is lacking in your strategy – for the creation of a genuine administrative procedural law for all types of infringement procedures, for all the procedures which involve the citizens. To sum up, we want Europe to speak with a single voice with regard to the internal market and to act as a model – why not? – in international relations. And to this end we need a clear legal framework, a legal framework for the internal market, with principles, which radiates into other policies and by means of which the citizens may have a clear idea of what has been done over the last 50 years and which now, through these initiatives, we believe will have an absolutely guaranteed future role. –  Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party, I should like to warmly congratulate Mrs Gebhardt on the way in which she has drawn up this report and also to reiterate something she has said: we hope the word ‘provisional’ can soon be dropped from the name of this Eurojust unit. Mr President, if I may link this debate to the previous one, we obviously have here another example of how this area of freedom, security and justice has grown lopsided. Area of freedom, but the freedoms, the guarantees for citizens are practically unheard of. The area of security is much more developed, with the growth of Europol over the years, to which we have today added the fight against organised crime; but this is the repressive function of the State. We have yet to develop the justice aspect – and this is now urgent – for it is the only way of counterbalancing this repressive function of the State with the function of administering justice or, as Mrs Gebhardt has so rightly said, of giving European citizens fundamental judicial security. The Gebhardt report places special emphasis on these three points. It sets out greater guarantees, that is, it goes towards creating this area of freedoms, as shown by Amendment No 3 or Amendment No 5, which ensure that the personal details of citizens, of the accused, of defendants are protected with the greatest care; and Amendment No 10, which ensures that only where the legislation of a Member State so permits may a police officer form part of this initial unit. This is the sense of the guarantees: to push forward this aspect of freedoms. But Mrs Gebhardt’s amendments also go towards improving effectiveness: being more effective, more reasonably effective. One example is her Amendment No 9, which moves that, in future, this initiative should be taken into account in the final decisions made on the Eurojust unit. Lastly, I believe there is an intention that we should be more consistent with this call to create an area of freedom, security and justice. This idea comes across quite clearly in the Gebhardt report. Thus, there are changes that will seem to many to be simply a matter of appearance, but in which the words betray what lies behind them: instead of contributing within the framework of respect there is an insistence on close collaboration; instead of coordination, there is talk of joint action: the report goes that one step further. Mr President, we come back again to the previous debate. If we are to develop this area we have to establish or strengthen that mutual trust between the States which allowed us to lay down common rules in the internal market. This mutual trust now has to take a further leap, and I realise it is a qualitative leap from the viewpoint of national cultures. This mutual trust has to reach this area of justice and go on from there to mutual recognition. There cannot be mutual recognition if there is no mutual trust between States on which to found it. In the previous debate a moment ago, Commissioner Vitorino highlighted it very well by calling it by its name: reasons of State. Countries must not exclude cooperation within the European Union by invoking reasons of State; they will have to treat each other equally. Moreover, this is the purpose of extrapolating the principles that have served to construct the internal market: no discrimination on grounds of nationality. If, according to the state of which we are nationals we give certain information to a national judge, then clearly if we want to be consistent with the idea of developing this area of freedom, security and justice we must also give it to a judge in the European Union when we are asked for it, because this is the only way we are going to mould this mutual trust between the States in a manner that reaches the citizens. Mr President, in conclusion, I believe this is one step, a timid step, which we hope will soon be consolidated in the Eurojust network; we hope it will soon no longer be provisional but will become a permanent network. . – Mr President, Commissioner, the report which I have the honour to present is the result of an extraordinary collaboration – which I am grateful for – between people and committees. Allow me to make two observations: the Committee on Legal Affairs has not accepted all the suggestions of the committee asked for an opinion. We were in complete agreement with most of them and they seemed to us to be very interesting, but we consider that this resolution was not the right place for them and that, by incorporating them, its message would be less clearly expressed. That has been my criterion for recommending a vote in favour of the amendments presented in this House. I therefore insist – and the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries is a good example of this – that they have not been included in the resolution, not because I reject their content, but because the message in relation to the internal market strategy had to be clearly expressed. What was that message? That message stems from the position adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs in our resolution of 4 November 1999. If you will allow me, Mr President, I will concentrate on three ideas. The first concern of the Committee on Legal Affairs –and I hope this House will ratify it tomorrow – is the concept of the situation of the internal market. What does the internal market mean to European construction? These days we hear the siren song of globalisation and together with that goes the idea that we are international. The internal market appears to have become very small in this new globalised economy. Nothing could be further from the truth. This document on the strategy for the internal market expresses this very clearly. The internal market is Europe’s platform in the world. The internal market embodies the key principles of a globalised economy with advantages for Europe in terms of competition. That is the first message of the Committee on Legal Affairs. We need to put the emphasis on the principles of the internal market: the principle of proportionality, the principle of mutual recognition, the principle of control of origin. These must be the great pillars upon which this strategy for the internal market is built. We will not make the headlines with this, but it is important nonetheless. The application and control of Community legislation is also important. The Member States must cooperate in this application. We must oppose procedures which are used too frequently, such as ‘gold plating’. We need to strengthen our infringement procedure, we need to consolidate it, make it more transparent and more accessible. We ask that decisions on the outcome of infringement proceedings be explained and that Parliament be informed of them. We ask that infringement cases be processed more quickly and that they be more effectively presented to the citizen. The second message of this resolution is that we need to make the present, rather disorganised laws, which the citizens see as a burden, into a genuine legislation, a coherent and clear framework of rules and regulations, without any overlapping or contradictions. These contradictions are seen by the citizen and by industry as burdens, as a lack of clarity in the message regarding the direction we are taking. Lastly, the third message is a change in the business culture in Europe. We need businesspeople who are more willing to take risks. To this end we will have to change certain laws, such as for example the European laws on insolvency in general, on the suspension of payments and bankruptcy. We need to put the emphasis on the creation of a genuine capital risk market. We need to convince young Europeans, as young Americans are already convinced, that the best option is not to join a large company, on a long-term basis, but to create new companies. In all of this, electronic commerce, the Internet and new technologies must offer a good platform. Finally, Mr President, to sum up, I hope that tomorrow, on voting for the resolution, Parliament will send a clear message. We are behind the Commission in this initiative and of course we want to participate in the whole process, permanently, cooperating, offering ideas and monitoring the situation. –  Mr Prodi, I am not speaking on behalf of any political group or any delegation. I speak for myself and all those of us who share certain opinions. Certain opinions which we could sum up in the following way: firstly, we know that Europe has been built on the basis of two forces for construction which are dialectically opposed: those who, aware of the weight of history, defend the survival and validity of the national State and those who, with greater courage, imagine a future with greater integration, whose political definition we still do not know, and this is perhaps one of the advantages of construction. Mr Prodi, I speak on behalf of all those who share your principles, who share your programme, who share the idea that Europe must establish a new order of peace, prosperity and stability and that Europe must show ,  and  (courage, ambition and vision). And in their name, Mr President, I understand that we must respect the essential equilibrium laid down in the Treaty. In this respect, for example, we must respect the Commission’s right to initiative. And, of course, we must ensure that the Treaties, the legislative texts and the activities of the institutions are more in line with the demands of society. And society demands something else – you said it yourself, Mr Prodi – it demands realism and demands that we are in closer contact with that society. Therefore, all I can do is, in the name of those I speak for, underline the commitment that, at the Intergovernmental Conference, we will carry out the fundamental reform which the citizens demand, the importance of which they have demonstrated through their low turn-out in the elections. The texts and our attitudes should be brought into line with today’s society, but we should not lose that which has been the key to the vault of Community construction. Mr President Prodi, good luck with next Commission which, with no doubt whatsoever, will be voted in tomorrow. –  Mr President, I have asked for these five minutes to speak today on the Roure report on behalf of my group, the Group of the European People’s Party. Following Mr MacCormick’s splendid intervention, I should like to make an initial observation. Here we have three initiatives aimed at combating organised crime, a major blight on society. They contain a clear political desire to combine efforts, to go further and to develop this area of freedom, security and justice. To do this we have to take care that measures do not become dispersed, with the creation of an absolutely lopsided situation in which, as Mr MacCormick has so rightly said, one part of the process suffers. We must be especially careful with this since what is at stake is the distinguishing mark of European identity: the protection of fundamental rights and guarantees of a fair trial. As a result of the Tampere agreements, we need the guarantees of a fair trial to be developed in the area of the third pillar, and we need these guarantees to be developed when transnational situations arise, such as the ones he has described. This picks up on the theme of Mr Lehne’s intervention. Mr Lehne was explaining the problem of a lawyer’s professional secrecy in the context of this fight against money laundering. Well, here we have another good example: in combating money laundering we may put at stake something that, far from being a lawyer’s privilege, is an essential element in this right to a fair trial, which in turn is an essential element in all our European development, culture and identity. I realise it is very difficult because here we have to construct something from a scattering of instruments. We have a directive to combat money laundering; we have a framework decision to combat it; we have an amendment to the Europol Convention. At some moment, we will have to compile all these texts because, Mr President, you and, doubtless, all of us here know that for this to be implemented by judges – who are the ones that have to implement it while guaranteeing the right to a fair trial – with this scattered system we are, of course, very poorly guided. I shall now focus on another issue, which also concerns the quality of the legislation. This report includes a recital on the Geneva appeal, and the Group of the European People’s Party will vote against it, not because we are against the Geneva appeal, but simply because as Parliament we must ensure the quality of legislation. The Geneva appeal is not a recital; it is not a legal reference nor a quasi-legal reference to a European Council. Finally, on the PPE’s initiative, two amendments to Article 8 have been included, because if we agree on the political will to combat organised crime, we cannot provide a chance for a Member State to refuse this cooperation – we are talking about legal cooperation, between judges – by invoking matters of national interest. Where does national interest come in when it is a case of one judge in the European Union asking for the cooperation of another judge in the European Union? What intermediate authority is going to interfere saying that there is national interest involved here? Let us be clear that it is one of two things: either we want to develop this area and not just leave a fine-sounding phrase in the Treaty, or – let us bow to the evidence – we do not want to carry what we have put in the Treaty through to its ultimate consequences and achieve this area of freedom, security and justice. Lastly, Mr President, the Group of the European People’s Party supports the compromise amendment that we have reached with Mrs Roure on lawyers’ activities. When lawyers act outside professional advice, outside what is fitting for a lawyer, let justice descend on them as it does on everyone else, because their professional secrecy is not a privilege for them, it is a right deriving from the legal structure and the guarantee of a fair trial. Hence we realise that the compromise amendment is certainly redundant, but for the sake of consensus in the House we shall vote in favour. Mr President, I should like to conclude by asking the Commission, in the difficult task it has ahead of it, in which it is making an enormous effort, to take into account these initiatives that I am putting forward on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party. – Mr President, Mr van Hulten, your work is worthy of being qualified as enterprising, arduous and complex, and I believe this is important in a first report. Please therefore accept what I am about to say as being criticism made in the spirit of honest debate, and I believe that in this way our debate here today will be richer. This report seems to me to be redundant, long-winded, confused and lacking in accuracy in the terms used. Perhaps ‘redundant’ is the most serious epithet, and you are not responsible for this. It is the responsibility of this Parliament. That is to say, if this Parliament commissions a Committee of Experts – and I am not going to repeat what Mr Casaca has said, but I agree with him to a large extent – to analyse a problem, where is the sense in indulging in the medieval tradition of criticising the critics and so on, . Clearly we are awaiting this reform from the Commission, we are awaiting the proposals which the Commission is going to make to us and this Parliament will have to express its opinion on them. Meanwhile, we have to offer the Commission a vote of confidence. ‘Long-winded’. I am not going to mention the length of this report. I do not know if it breaks the record for all the resolutions presented here, but, for this type of resolution it certainly does. I do not believe that there has ever been a resolution – and in this Parliament we certainly produce complex resolutions – which has had paragraphs of more than 16 lines without a single full stop. It is also ‘confusing’. I am not going to return to what has been said about the analysis of questions concerning Parliament. That should be the subject of another report and we will have to carry one out and consider that issue, but not in this report. And finally, Mr President, frankly, I am not going to give examples, but there are many cases in which legal language is used with an alarming lack of accuracy. Therefore – in summary – I await, and many of us await, your report, Commissioner Kinnock, so that we can really express our opinion on it, which is the duty of this Parliament. – (ES)Mr President, I must begin by emphasising that this Parliament has observed that the Finnish Presidency, from the beginning of its mandate, has shown independence and equanimity and has sought agreed solutions. These three attributes, which I wish to highlight, bode well for the success of this first Finnish Presidency and they will be needed, given the challenges which face it. Since it is impossible in three minutes to list all these challenges – the Presidency-in-Office of the Council has said that it is impossible to list its programme – I will limit myself to a few brief observations on some particular points. With regard to enlargement, we must be aware that events in the Balkans have changed the landscape, and in Helsinki we will have to open negotiations with other countries. In relation to institutional affairs, the Finnish Presidency has an enormous responsibility: that of initiating work which will lead to the conclusion of a statute on fundamental rights. But we should not forget that the mandate of the Cologne European Council meeting speaks of a non-binding statute which, initially, will not be incorporated into the Treaties. If our intention, from the outset, is to implement a set of binding rights, this would leave us with a minimal statute which will offer little to European citizens. With regard to the statute on MEPs, the Finnish Presidency – and it should be congratulated on this – has also shown respect for the fact that this initiative concerns this Parliament. With regard to the functioning of the College of Commissioners, I would like to say, from this Chamber, that we will not allow the individual responsibility of the Commissioners to be used as a weapon. Moving on to economic affairs, the matter of a tax on energy has been mentioned here. The Finnish Presidency knows that this is a disputed question and we hope it will make use of all its powers of conciliation in order that this taxation package might move forward, since it is of great importance to Europe. And I would like to say a few words on the question of the internal market. I hope that the internal market does not suffer as a result of this idea of bringing it into line with international agreements in areas such as electronic commerce. It is must be stated that the Tampere Summit must not become a Summit on immigration and asylum. Although this is very important and events in the Balkans have demonstrated the urgency required in this field, the Tampere Summit must be dedicated to developing a region which enjoys liberty, security and justice. We must be conscious of the fact that, if this development is to be harmonious, we must insist on the idea of ‘justice’, we must promote the European judicial network, we must be capable of making sentences effective and making the sentences immediate, both the criminal and the non-criminal ones, and we must facilitate direct relationships between judges. These are the challenges for the Tampere Summit and immigration, although important, must not be allowed to push them to one side. And just a word about three matters which have been side-stepped and which are important for the South and for Spain. We must begin a dialogue with Mexico and Mercosur. And with regard to Morocco, those EUR 125 million must be released. –  Mr President, I should firstly like to refer to the almost herculean, not to mention highly commendable, work carried out by the rapporteur that has, above all, highlighted concerns for small and medium-sized companies that really form the focus of this reform.   The rapporteur has accused me, with his usual goodwill, of taking a more conservative and cautious stance on this issue. I do share his concerns, particularly the one he expressed in Amendment No 13. However, the problem we face involves a highly complex network in which laws from 15 different national origins are interwoven, and harmonising such laws is not something we can fully hope to achieve overnight. I think that Mr Ferri’s concerns – some of which I do not personally share but have defended as a member of the Group of the European People’s Party – will come to the fore in the next few years and I should like to assure him of our support since he has been proved absolutely right on many of the issues he has defended in the past. As regards the regulation, the first point I should like to make is that it derives from the 1993 Directive. It is high time this regulation came into being: we cannot delay it any longer. Its passage has been hindered, among other things, by a famous ruling of the Court of Justice which requires a change to the legal basis, and the complexities in the repair clause relating to the spare parts for complex products which the rapporteur mentioned. I should therefore firstly like to urge the Commission – and I think I speak for both the European People’s Party and Parliament here – to do everything in its power to enable the Council to adopt this regulation and do so as soon as possible. This is because, I am proud to say, the amendments endorsed by Parliament – without wishing to undermine the rapporteur’s explanations – significantly improve the quality of the text. All too often in Parliament we produce texts that are, for complex political reasons, both obscure and of reprehensible quality. Generally speaking, these amendments considerably enhance the text and I believe the Commission will adopt them without any problem. One of the more important amendments in my view is Amendment No 16, which provides that, in certain cases, if the ground for invalidation of a design obtains only in respect of one or some Member States, invalidity shall be declared only in respect of such a Member State or States. This could lead to the paradoxical situation in which a Community design could be invalid in fourteen Member States and valid only in one. I shall stop on that note, Mr President, as it is Friday, but I think the message is clear. I hope that the Commission adopts the majority of our amendments and proceeds to approve the regulation quickly so that it takes effect as soon as possible. – Mr President, on closing this debate, this important debate, with an important and excellent report, what could be better than to talk of justice. Until now, justice has been rather absent from the general debate. I believe that all political communities are judged by the justice they provide. The reality is that our justice system is not sufficient for the competences which have been transferred to the European institutions, the Community competences, especially the competences which have to be reviewed from a legal point of view. Therefore I believe – and this should include the strict current mandate for the Conference with regard to the revision of the institutions in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam – that we have to deal with the necessary and thorough reform of our Court of Justice and our Court of First Instance and the reform of the appointment of judges – in which the Parliament should have a significant involvement – as well as the reform of the distribution of competences between the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance, so that citizens may have an accurate and clear idea of what this European justice, which is their direct form of justice, really is, and the reform, finally – and this is another chapter – of the actionability of the acts. I will end by saying, Mr President, that all of this will become all the more necessary in view of the other great mandate, the launch of which will be the finishing touch of the Finnish Presidency – the excellent Finnish Presidency, whose many successes it is a great honour to recognise in this Chamber and which has been a turning point in the behaviour of the Council. There is a “before and after” of the Finnish Presidency with regard to the daily treatment of this Parliament. That other challenge is to launch the Charter of Fundamental Rights. There is also a problem here between the Court of Luxembourg and the Court of Strasbourg. Mr President, as I said at the beginning, a political community is judged by the justice it provides. Let us be aware of this and let us deal with this reform. Madam President, I want to condemn the absence of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council. On Third Pillar matters such as these conventions which are so important for the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice, it is unacceptable for the Presidency-in-Office of the Council to be absent. I also want to mention the translation problems, of which I will give just one example, as we do not have much time. Correct translation is vital in this subject as it involves very precise legal concepts. Amendment No 83 in Italian, which is the original version, states that ‘’. The term ‘’ has been translated into French as ‘’. I have no idea what an ‘’ is. It rather seems like a contradiction in terms. However, in the Spanish version the ‘’ has disappeared completely. Madam President, you have said several times that this is a very serious problem. The lawyer-linguists should work very carefully to ensure that a reasonable version is produced. I believe this is an excellent and very wise report, much like the rapporteur. I am personally in full agreement with this report, because I believe it takes the perfect approach. However, I have not taken part in the vote – despite agreeing personally with the contents of the report – owing to my appointment as a representative of the President of the Spanish Government in the Convention. Not because I believe there is any incompatibility – which there is not: either legal, material, ethical or any other – but, quite the opposite: the status of MEP – which I share with two other Members who have also been appointed by two other Heads of State and Government, in Greece and Luxembourg – gives added value to the Convention, which is a joint task and not one of opposition. Nevertheless, also for personal reasons, which are much more symbolic or aesthetic, if you like, Mr President, I have preferred not to participate in the determination of an approach which will undoubtedly serve as a basis for the position taken by Parliament’s delegation in the Convention. Although there is no incompatibility of any type, I would like it to be noted that my blank vote is purely intended to reflect the fact that I was present. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, from amongst the very interesting Lisbon conclusions, please allow me to highlight a declaration which, because it is apparently technical – although I believe it is politically very important – has not yet been mentioned by previous speakers. I am talking about the request to the Commission that it contemplate, for 2001, a coordinated strategy in the legislative field. At the moment we have, to name but a few, initiatives such as SLIM, the Business Test Panel, the Regulatory Policy Guidelines and the Better Law-Making Report, not to mention the initiatives relating to codification or the quality of legislation. Clearly this will all have to be coordinated and we will even have to go further in laying down the new regulations or restructuring the existing legislation. Improving quality must not only be directed at Community legislation but also at the legislation of the Member States. In all new legislation we must establish a better balance between ‘self regulation’ and ‘public regulation’, in accordance with what, in the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit, in some initiatives, has been called coregulation. We must review the ‘Best Business Impact’ initiative. Throughout the whole of this exercise, we must take account of the interests of the consumers and the interests of the environment, and these are complicated tasks. Returning to simplification, the SLIM initiative requires a complete revision. We need a clear programme. We also need this programme to be applied on a national level, where there is still a lot of ‘gold plating’ of directives when they are transposed. We need expiry clauses and we need to improve codification. Codification is currently too cumbersome an instrument, too ineffective, and therefore we perhaps have to reform the Treaty. We have to tackle that reform of the Treaty. Lastly, we have to regulate more quickly and be more effective. Since we are in the Internet era, we have to take account of the fact that, in Internet terms, a year is equivalent to three months at the most. Therefore we need to make improvements in that respect as well. Mr President, I wish to say first of all that your work programme is also ours and that really your ambitions are also ours, and I am sure you will have the support of the House. I wish to make three distinct observations. Mr President, you spoke of a realistic and intelligent defence of the prerogatives of this House; you mentioned the Lamfalussy report; also, yesterday you decided not to attend the Court of Justice and to adopt a long-sighted approach on a matter vital to Europe’s citizens. I would say that this intelligent defence of our prerogatives – which are not our own, but which represent our responsibility towards the citizens – is a  that I wish to highlight. Within this defence of our prerogatives and this maintaining of better relations with the other two institutions, in which we all have an interest, there is, nevertheless, one aspect that you touched on briefly and on which I should like to focus: access to the ‘screening’ documents for the candidate countries which, to date, are being denied us. It makes no sense for us to ask our colleagues from the candidate countries to familiarise themselves with these ‘screening’ documents, whilst we ourselves do not have access to them. This is one of the practical issues, which should not simply be of concern to us, but which we should attend to immediately. The second aspect concerning this Parliament’s prerogatives is image. One image reveals more than a thousand words and the press conference held yesterday by the three institutions, together with the rapporteur, Mr von Wogau, will mean that, in future, we will not have to read, as has happened before, that a directive has been approved, when what has really been approved is a Council common position. The three institutions are committed to demonstrating responsibility towards the citizens to produce effective and good legislation. Which leads to the second aspect: the insistence on the rigour of this institution is important. The three institutions have to improve the quality of legislation. This has been said on various occasions and is one of the great challenges overall, not just for the European institutions. Legislation must be legible despite its complexity. We must eschew jargon and unintelligible expressions, as has been said. To this end, when it comes to reforming this House, I wish to point out that this is a House of committees. We must support your idea – expressed, amongst others, by the Provan group and by other working parties within Parliament’s Bureau – that the more technical work must be carried out by the committees, but without its visibility to the citizens suffering. It is important that the citizens understand the work we are undertaking, not only in Plenary, which is already happening, but also in the committees. This is why we have to improve the committee’s system of communication with our citizens. I shall finish by discussing a third aspect, which is dialogue with the citizens. Mr President, you are a magnificent representative of what this House stands for. Your personal skills will ensure that we are able to undertake a useful piece of work. I use this word carefully: we have worked constructively on European integration, on what the European institutions really do, on what this House does and on to what extent we in this House feel responsible for the extremely important task of representing Europe’s citizens. – Mr President, given that some of us have been accused of having shady intentions for arguing that there is a lack of, or rather doubt over, a legal basis for certain articles of the directive which we are debating today, I would like to talk about interinstitutional balance. This interinstitutional balance is a source of legitimacy for European integration. I would also like to talk about the obligation inherent in the Treaties. According to the Treaty, the Commission has had the obligation, for more than two months, to analyse the judgment and to draw the relevant conclusions from it. The Commissioner today, for the first time, in his very brief intervention, has used the words “no doubt” at least three times and the words “clear” or “clearly” at least three times. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in law, when one feels the need to say that something is clear, and that there is no doubt about it, it is because there is doubt and it is not clear. In this case there is doubt and it is not clear. Mr President, how can it be said that a justification in Amendment No 2 respects what the Court of Justice has said, when according to that justification, in order to explain the danger to the internal market, several Member States have indicated that, if certain measures are not adopted, they would seek to legislate? Which Member States? Which measures? That is what we expected from the Commission, that they should tell us, that they should explain this to us. Let us take some other examples, Amendments Nos 1, 4 and 18. To add the legal basis of Article 133 is legally skilful, but has the Commission really considered Article 131 which is the mother article of external trade policy, and which says that that policy is intended “to increase the competitiveness of our companies”? How does that square with the justification in Amendment No 18, where it says that an exemption period is granted because that could seriously harm our industry? How does that square with that same justification, which says that negotiations must be held within the World Trade Organisation? Mr President, these doubts, these justifiable doubts, which have nothing to do with any shady or mysterious friendship with some company or other, are the reason for the vote of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and I remember that it was 18 votes to 9. Although I was not present, my vote, of course, supported the Committee. Mr President, I want to start by saying that I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party which I represent on this issue. I should like to draw attention to the fact that the Council is not present today. By contrast, I welcome the attentive presence of Commissioner Vitorino, as has consistently been the case since his appointment. This leads me to another point. This House has only prepared one report on this Convention. It was in fact consulted on a text which was not the text being worked on by the Council and which did not contain points which had already been agreed. I condemn this, as well as the Council’s absence. These are serious matters on which this House must act. We are about to advance into new territory where attitudes and symbols are of great significance. A political community is reflected in the justice which it hands out. This is why this report is so important. It represents a step towards the area of freedom, security and, particularly, justice to which we all aspire. It is also an important step towards European natural justice. This will be built on mutual confidence between the Member States and their respective legal systems and on the confidence of the European people in any European court. It will also be built on scrupulous respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and on the guarantee of fair trials in particular. It is in this respect that this House has significantly – and in my opinion rightly – altered the balance proposed by the Council by firmly and decidedly supporting a reinforcement of these guarantees of fair trials in all the amendments. Mr President, as the rapporteur said, this House has concentrated on the particular issue of phone tapping in order to remove this from the Convention. On behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party, I have tabled an amendment to the motion for a resolution which asks the Council to produce a text on this issue as soon as possible. The regulation of phone tapping in the Council document was incomplete and therefore inadequate. Yet a lack of regulation is also inappropriate and may lead to abuses in the telecommunications field. In fact, we are aware that these are already happening widely. The other point which I must highlight and on which we have also worked extensively is the use of video conferencing with regard to accused persons. Again on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party, I have asked the Council to produce a convention as soon as possible in order to clarify and supplement the regulation of this issue, which is frankly unsatisfactory. Apart from a few exceptions, the Members of the Group of the European People’s Party will vote in favour of the committee’s amendments, and of course our own. –  Mr President, I am happy to take the floor in the debate on this report and I congratulate Mrs Theato. I believe that this is a report for which cooperation between committees has worked very well, and the result, which we have received today, is moderate and thoughtful in a very delicate area. This moderation and thoughtfulness is particularly necessary in the implementation of Article 280(4). If we had to give a prize for the article which was most difficult to understand, least clear and most confused – however you like to put it – the competition would be very hard fought. The Treaty is a collection of complex articles. However, this one would undoubtedly be one of the firm favourites to win such a prize. At the same time, it is an especially delicate issue because it deals with the protection of the Community’s financial interests, as Mrs Theato has explained very well. We are all aware – and this Parliament has been the steadfast champion in this respect – of the need to protect the financial interests of the Community. But be careful. As the French say, " [let us not throw the baby out with the bath water], that is to say, in the protection of the Community’s financial interests, we must respect, on the one hand – as Mrs Theato has said – the competences of the Member States, but also other matters which affect the citizens, which affect the essential guarantees. The conclusions of the Theato report safeguard them perfectly. Therefore, in my capacity as president of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and, of course, as an MEP, I hope that a large majority of this House will support this report and that it will be well implemented by the Commission. –  Mr President, I have the honour of presenting this report on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market which appointed me institutional rapporteur.  This report on the verification of credentials has its roots and legal basis in Article 11 of the Act concerning the election of the representatives of the European Parliament annexed to the Council decision of 20 September 1976.  In accordance with this legal basis it falls to the European Parliament to verify the credentials of its Members until the uniform electoral procedure comes into force.  This report on the verification of credentials relates to the outcome of the fifth direct election to the European Parliament, which took place on 10 to 13 June 1999 and is based on the official notifications by all the Member States of the full election results and the names of any substitutes together with their ranking in accordance with the results of the vote.  However, in accordance with Article 7(5) of our Rules of Procedure, any Member may attend sittings of Parliament and its bodies even if his credentials have not been verified or a ruling has not been given on a dispute. Accordingly, pending adoption of the report on the verification of credentials, – I hope with an overwhelming majority tomorrow in the plenary sitting – all of us, all Members elected in the fifth legislature, have been able to exercise our rights in full and with no restrictions.  The Rules of Procedure also lay down that, should an elected Member resign from Parliament before this report has been adopted in plenary, the vacancy and the name of the new Member shall be verified, pursuant to Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure in conjunction with the relevant provisions of the Act of 20 September 1976, in a separate procedure independent of this report and which will take place at a convenient time.  Therefore, this report relates only to the acquisition of a mandate as a result of the fifth direct elections to the European Parliament.  The competent national authorities of fourteen Member States sent their official notifications on 20 July 1999. As far as Luxembourg was concerned, there was a delay in declaring the candidates elected due to the fact that a general election was held at the same time as the European election. In these elections, some candidates stood for the European Parliament as well as for the national parliament and some were also potential Members of the future government of Luxembourg, which is incompatible, pursuant to Article 6(1) of the Act of 20 September 1976, with Membership of the European Parliament. Because the Luxembourg Government was not formed until early August 1999, the mandate of the now Commissioner Viviane Reding could not become effective, following notification from the competent Luxembourg authorities, until 7 August 1999. In turn, Mrs Reding’s resignation will be subject to verification in a separate decision as I previously stated.  On the other hand, Rule 7(2) of the Rules of Procedure lays down that it is not possible to confirm the validity of the mandate of a Member unless the written declarations required on the basis of Article 6 of the Act of 20 September 1976 and Annex 1 to the Rules of Procedure have been made. These declarations – it is worth pointing out – are to the effect that the Member does not hold any of the offices listed in Article 6 which are incompatible with membership of the European Parliament. They also contain precise information on the Member’s professional activities, any other remunerated functions or activities and any support, whether financial or in terms of staff or material. I have to say that making these declarations is the sole responsibility of the Member, who must make them to the best of his or her knowledge. In this procedure and in the report that I am presenting today, what will be verified is only whether the formal requirements have been met.  Therefore, Mr President, this is the background to the report on which we will vote tomorrow in plenary sitting in Parliament and for which, as rapporteur, I have presented two amendments which are justified by my explanation about the elections in Luxembourg and by what I have said. –  Mr President, this is an important directive. It is important firstly because – as the rapporteur said – it is one of these completely successful cases of taking advantage of the opportunities made possible by the former Article 138B of the Treaty of Maastricht, in other words, this Parliament is launching an initiative that will be taken up by the Commission and followed up by the Council.  The rapporteur said that this is also an example of good cooperation between the three institutions. However, I would like to highlight the hard work, which has been notable and entirely praiseworthy, almost Herculean, of the rapporteur, Mr Rothley, throughout the process, from the conception of the basic idea to the follow-up, full of passion and rigour, of the legislative work that has been carried out.  This is also an important directive, however, because now, when we are so concerned about the indifference of European citizens – who do not turn out to vote, who feel that Europe is very distant from them and who do not know whether Brussels is anything more than a place which produces what they perceive to be obligations – this is a good example of what our citizens really feel and understand to be the case. This is something that they will notice in their daily lives because any of them may have a car, and any of them, even if they do not travel abroad much, will have the idea that “well, if I do go abroad at least I will be covered”. It offers some security.  It is important for another reason. Mr President, I would like to say most emphatically on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party, that the large majority of us support the rapporteur, Mr Rothley, on the only point of real controversy which, as he has made very clear, is its field of application. There is a, shall we say, technical problem in the way it will apply but we will have to resolve these issues from a technical point of view. We utterly refuse to change the philosophy of it. This Parliament has shown itself to be clearly opposed to moving from the idea of a binding law to the idea of a voluntary pact between people who are insured with a voluntary subscription on their part.  From that starting point, we can discuss the matter. If it is true – and it is true, and I was the first to recognise this as I was quite opposed to this idea, defended from the outset by Mr Rothley -, that some technical modifications will need to be made, then so be it. Let us not forget though that these modifications are to some extent an unnecessary clarification – and Mr Rothley is right in this – because in no case can a directive affect private international law or the rules of procedure.  If these clarifications need to be made, we will make them. If an item needs to be revised, it shall be revised. If we need to make a modification, we shall do so. However, Mr President, in any event, the Group of the European People’s Party maintains that we will not change our philosophy. We are not prepared to replace this philosophy of binding law with another one that is completely uncertain and not very favourable to the European citizen, to a voluntary subscription scheme. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, this morning we will approve the Council common position definitively adopting this reform of the Community Customs Code. It could be thought, given that Parliament has not tabled amendments to the Council common position, that we have before us a perfect text. That is not the case, but it is a satisfactory text and, having given it great thought and following an extensive debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market decided not to table any amendments. What are the reasons for this? We need a little history. The reform of the Community Customs Code was enshrined in Article 253 of the current code and a reform was planned for before 1 January 1998. We are therefore somewhat behind schedule. This reform is important because it aims to re-examine the Community Customs Code in accordance with the progress of the internal market and of administrative techniques. It is therefore an important and urgent reform in a sector that, as we are all well aware, is the real core of European construction. Building a common customs system has been one of the major achievements in that progress towards European construction. The proposal aims to simplify customs processes by means of computerised or paperless declarations, to make the rules more flexible, to improve the procedure for collecting duties and to provide a more solid basis for applying the principle of good faith to imports that are subject to the preferential regime, establishing legal instruments that enable us to combat fraud and offering greater legal security. At first reading, in the Paasilinna report, Parliament adopted thirteen amendments of varying importance, which also met a variety of fates when they subsequently went to the Council. In its joint position that was definitively and unanimously adopted, the Council incorporated eight amendments and rejected five. I am not going to comment on the eight amendments that were adopted, as we are all in agreement with them. I am going to discuss the five amendments that were not incorporated. Three of them – Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 7, referred to the commitology procedure. These amendments need to be considered in the new context of the interinstitutional agreement, and therefore, Parliament can agree to not insisting on these commitology amendments given that they have been superseded to a certain extent by the new interinstitutional framework. With Amendment No 15, Parliament wished to introduce a recital urging the customs authorities to apply customs rules correctly, to establish monitoring measures in order to ensure that it was applied consistently and to facilitate action against fraud. The Council considered that it was not drafted suitably in order to be included in the Community Customs Code and pointed out that there is a Green Paper – which is currently being converted into rules – specifically for combating fraud. We were therefore also able to accept this amendment not being incorporated. Finally, Amendment No 11 requested that this modification to the Community Customs Code enter into force before 1 January 2000 and is, therefore, no longer valid. Aside from these amendments, it should be considered that the common position modified the original text on which Parliament had agreed on two important points: the first is Article 220, in which the Commission aimed to maintain a longer period for conducting the investigations that could lead to a prosecution for fraud or a wrongful declaration. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, following a long debate, considered that it was not reasonable to maintain legal uncertainty for a period of six years, and that three years, which is the period set, is a more reasonable period of time for establishing, with the appropriate means and the average proceedings, whether or not there were irregularities in a declaration. With regard to the modification of Paragraph 6 of Article 215, it should be said that we are dealing with a deeper issue, because the intention is that the additional declaration could be made anywhere in the European Union, especially wherever in the European Union the undertaking in question has its headquarters. On this point we consider that, given administrative and technical advances, instead of making an amendment on the legislative text, we preferred an amendment to the draft resolution that I hope the Commission will be able to accept. In a subsequent reform of the Community Customs Code, this will enable this idea to be incorporated, which is one that we feel is important and deserves to be promoted and supported by the European Parliament. – Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, I would firstly like to acknowledge Mr Schulz. I would like to say to you, Mr Schulz, from the bottom of my heart, something which I would like somebody one day to say about me: you have been a good adversary, that is to say, a hard adversary, always frank, forceful, often discomforting and there is no doubt that we will miss you. Mr President, allow me now to come to the point and say that this seems to me to be an important Commission document because it genuinely launches a debate which many previous documents pointed to, in particular the Tampere conclusions, but the content of which needed to be clarified. There is, without doubt, a great need to clarify the existing differences between the asylum procedure, reception conditions, the interpretation of the definition of a refugee, the links between that asylum procedure and the ‘Dublin mechanism’ procedures and other forms of protection and, in this respect, this document perfectly focuses the debate. I am not going to mention all of the points highlighted by the other speakers, but I would like to insist on two points in particular. Firstly, I believe that the Commission correctly relates the issues concerning asylum procedures, the object of a future directive, to the Dublin Convention procedure and the notion of a safe third country. I must say in this regard that I have put forward an amendment which is against the system of lists. It is problem of method. Fiji was a secure country until a few days ago, and overnight it ceased to be one. If we employ a system of closed lists, difficulties will arise in terms of keeping the lists up to date, which would cause enormous harm. The other amendment which I have signed concerns the distribution of burdens. We are all aware that the principle of solidarity requires a distribution of the consequences stemming from the current asymmetry in requests for asylum. Firstly, we must say that if we achieve harmonised asylum procedures, the level of requests will also tend to become more homogenised. Secondly, I would like to say that this report has one virtue which I would like to highlight amongst others – although I have been critical on some points – and that is that it very much insists on legal certainty, on judicial safeguards, on the asylum seeker’s right to defence and, in particular, on everything contained in point 4 and, of course, on everything relating to legal assistance, with the possibility of making contact with NGOs and the UNHCR. Evidently, this fits in very badly with the measures on distribution by quotas which have an image which is closely connected to deportation. Therefore, Mr President, I hope that certain groups, and in particular the PPE Group, will reconsider this amendment, which takes up the amendment of the Group of the Greens precisely. In other words, it is not an amendment of a conservative or any other origin, nor of any particular geographical origin. It takes up an amendment of the Group of the Greens which was not approved in committee and I believe it should receive the support of the House. – Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Spanish delegation of the European People’s Party, the delegation of the Spanish People’s Party, with regard to Mrs Terrón i Cusí’s resolution on the area of freedom, security and justice. There have been some votes where we have not followed the guidelines of the Group of the European People’s Party, and we have voted in favour of the Terrón i Cusí resolution, which we consider on the whole to be excellent. However, we have voted against paragraphs 2 and 6, because they seem to us to be legally incorrect. On the other hand, we have voted in favour of Recital J which, in fact, is in line with what I, as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms, proposed to that Committee, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference. We have also voted in favour of paragraph 13. An appropriate statute and the right of movement and settlement for residents of non-EU countries is something which the Spanish People’s Party has been advocating for some time. For similar reasons, we have voted in favour of paragraph 14 which, with the oral amendment, dealt with certain very justifiable concerns about the question of subsidiarity, since political rights, not just voting in local elections, but political rights in general terms, form part of the sovereignty of Member States. Given the oral amendment, we felt we could vote in favour and that is what we have done. –  Mr President, first of all I apologise to you, the Commission and all my colleagues for being late, but I have come from another meeting and could not get here any earlier. Several accomplished speakers from the European People’s Party have already taken the floor to express the views of the group. Let me, then, give an overall view. First of all, I think, of course, that the Commission’s work is laudable and often extremely difficult. In this document entitled ‘Better Lawmaking’ there are barely two paragraphs on subsidiarity. This is evidently related to the difficulty of this principle, which we have even described as theological. Nevertheless I believe we have to insist that as it is in the Treaty it is a principle that can stand before the Court of Justice. It is true that we do not yet have a case based on a breach of the principle of subsidiarity, but it is there and we cannot ignore that. In other words, Mr President, the principle of subsidiarity is probably the principle that fuses, brings together and sums up what the building of Europe is all about, because ultimately it is nothing but the political will that is included in the Treaty. An understanding of the principle of subsidiarity depends greatly on what the political will is at any moment. I am therefore not very enthusiastic about certain aspects of the report, because I would have liked the report to have been more ‘communitising’ as regards the internal market, and on this point, especially, these are clearly not the prevailing winds in the report. As regards the rest, Mr President, the report deals with other issues that are not on the same level. Codification and simplification are important and laudable issues, but only a matter of good legal technique. I would therefore ask the Commission to provide us next year with a report on the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity with all its consequences, and another report on the implementation of good administrative and legislative techniques. , – Mr President, I would first like to apologise for having arrived late. Secondly, I would like to welcome the work done by Mrs Riis-Jørgensen, with whom I have had an excellent and constructive relationship. And obviously, Mr President, although my opinion refers to the Commission’s 29th report on competition policy, it is inevitable at such a time that we will look to the past, but for no other reason than in order to learn for the future. It has been said – and I am only going to pick up on what has been said so far – that competition is presently the big word in our society, it is the great catalyst for the development of our society, particularly of our European society. In short, we see that industry entered into competition following the Treaty of Rome, that this competition was also extended to services on the basis of the single market and that, with the euro, it extended to financial services. We see that now, driven by international competition and by the new technologies, the large telecommunications sector is being dealt with. Finally, even royalty sectors, the real enclaves of sovereignty, of State royalty activities, are coming under competition policy. Therefore, Mr President, we need to recognise that, with Member States that are ceasing to be producers and becoming regulators, the Commission policy needs to change, and in this sense, this report is part of that important development. In its opinion, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market did nothing more than highlight something which has been said and repeated: that we need clear rules, because this is the only way of knowing what the rules of play are. We cannot leave everything to the market with no regulation at all. What we need are clear rules and – I stress – rules that are of a sufficient level or category. In any event, interpretations or interpretative communications are no good. And also, of course, that the Commission’s policy, which we welcome and support in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, should not be shaped, in this process of decentralisation, to the detriment of small and medium-sized businesses, to the detriment of the citizens. I will end with a phrase from John Rawls, the philosopher of law: inequalities are always justified when they increase the level of the system and support the weakest without affecting fundamental rights. Commissioner, knowing how far this goes in the universal service, in public service, is the great challenge for the Commission. – Mr President, I congratulate Mr Haarder whose excellent work I would describe as well-balanced, measured and well thought out. Furthermore, since I have had the honour of working with him on previous annual reports on human rights, I know how difficult it is. I hope that he receives the broad support of this House that he has asked for. He deserves it. Mr President, at the beginning of his first intervention, Mr Haarder said that Europe did not invent human rights, and that is true. However, what does characterise Europe is the fact that, having moved them from the private realm into the public realm by making them actionable, it has made human rights the flag, the distinguishing mark which characterises us as Europeans. We have talked about the defence of these human rights and I would now like to insist that if we proclaim human rights, it naturally follows that we must ensure that those rights can be exercised. I support all the points that have been made and I would like to add another. I am talking about those people who cannot exercise their rights because they are under pressure from certain quarters, certain organisations. I will give just one example. Recently, the members of the  [Ermua Forum] visited us and I would like to remind the House that these members come from all sections of the political spectrum, ranging from left to right. They are intellectuals, they are men and women who live in the Basque Country and who cannot exercise their rights, their right to freedom of expression, because they constantly feel under pressure from , the political wing of ETA. Just one more example: last Sunday the Basque people received an intimidating invitation not to turn out to vote. Fortunately, Basque society voted en masse, displaying the courage which is so essential in that environment. Mr President, I will end as I began: this House must state loud and clear that the most important element of respecting human rights is the defence of the exercise of those rights – in full – in all cases and particularly in the face of those forces and organisations which hinder freedom of expression. – Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on a report, which, on reading it, gives the impression of simply confirming and accepting the Council’s draft decision. However, this report is based on long and effective work which has already produced certain results, such as the incorporation into the Finnish Presidency’s document of 7 December 1999 of the commitment to widen the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference to include a study of the future modification of the organisation, composition and competences of the Community Courts. For this reason, I would like to express my appreciation for the work carried out by Vice-President Marinho. Mr President, the reform of the Community judicial system has become an essential requirement if, in the future, we intend justice to be done within reasonable time scales, and if, in the future, the European Union wishes to have a judicial system which is equal to the political project which we have embarked upon. Today – and I must say this with pride and satisfaction – this Parliament has had a good opportunity to demonstrate the extent to which we Europeans believe that the European political project is much more than just an internal market, and that it is based much more on principles than on economic interests. Behind these principles, Mr President, lies the justice system. However, justice delayed is justice denied, and we must reflect on this notion. The working document prepared by the Court itself contains alarming information. For this reason, the draft reform, which has been drawn up by the rapporteur, Vice-President Marinho, is to be welcomed. It is true that it is a stopgap solution, but we must rely on stopgap solutions because, at the moment – as he himself has pointed out – we cannot expect a broad reform of the system from the Intergovernmental Conference. We have to offer solutions which, while provisional, help to provide a faster and more effective system of justice. I would like to make two observations during this intervention, which stem from the report itself, given this Parliament’s obligation, in accordance with the Treaty, to produce a very succinct report, which does not go into depth. These are two of Vice-President Marinho’s ideas and, I believe, they are seconded by the whole of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. The first is that greater resources should be given to judges of first instance, and that they should be given one more . The second is that the translation services of the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice should be separated. At the moment, the Court of First Instance has to wait a very long time for its judgements to be translated. According to the Treaty, one of the founding principles of this Community is linguistic and cultural plurality and there is no question of our overlooking the possibility of something as important as being able to read a judgement in our own language. Since we are talking about the Intergovernmental Conference, let us consider just two points. The first concerns this Parliament. I believe that it is well worth insisting that we wish to participate more with regard to the Court of Justice, even in the appointment of judges. Above all, we wish to see an extension of the competences of the Court of Justice, hand in hand with its capacity to fulfil its obligations, in other words, its resources. We wish to see its competences extended, especially within Chapter IV of the Treaty of the European Community and with regard to Chapter VI of the Treaty on European Union and also a review of certain possible options, certain clear limitations of protection in these areas which are of extraordinary importance to our citizens. And I refer once again to the declarations which we have heard in recent days. – Madam President, I have also had a problem with the machine. In yesterday’s Minutes, on the question of the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, it appears that I did not vote. I was obviously here and I do not know whether the machine worked. I would like this to be recorded in the Minutes. – Mr President, I offer this explanation of vote on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. The concern of the PPE-DE Group was that, as a result of the ambiguity of its wording, Amendment No 8 to the resolution on the European judicial area could be wrongly interpreted. This wording – particularly in certain language versions – could be interpreted as meaning that the entry into force of the four measures was being replaced by that of the framework decision on terrorism. Following Mrs Buitenweg’s clarification, we have voted in favour, because it is logical that the framework decision on terrorism should serve as an interpretative criterion for these four decisions. –  Madam President, following the result of the vote there are certain inconsistencies, but they are minor. We are at first reading, and if every time there are inconsistencies of this type we returned the report to committee, we would have to return a huge number of first readings. It is therefore completely wrong to return the report to committee. . –  Madam President, what the PPE-DE Group has actually requested is, since this is a very short report, if it could go before Mr Rothley’s report on vehicle insurance. – Mr President, as the Commission says in the introduction to its communication, we cannot seriously speak of a citizens’ Europe without dealing with the rights of victims. I would like to express my agreement with what has been said by other speakers about the hope that the Commission will be more ambitious than it has been in this communication. I also urge it be ambitious. Please allow me, Mr President, to focus on the problem of the victims of terrorism. I must begin by expressing my regret at the fact that a certain Member who spoke previously gave the impression that he reluctantly accepted the importance of the victims of terrorism, and then straight away focussed on other issues. However, I would like to highlight the importance of this report and Mrs Sörensen’s cooperation. This is a balanced report which has been sensitive to the victims of terrorism, because if there are three groups of victims which must receive our special attention, they are, as the Treaty says, victims of trafficking in human beings, victims of crime against children and victims of terrorism. I must therefore congratulate Mrs Sörensen, since she has hit the nail on the head by stressing that certain groups need specific attention. We must not forget that complete attention must involve psychological attention. This complete attention must also involve the consideration of family relatives as also being victims. This is especially true in the case of terrorism. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that this is a step which we hope will encourage the Commission to implement, with the Treaty of Amsterdam in their hands, more ambitious measures in this area. This, as the Commission says very clearly, is an obligation for all of us if we want to be able to speak proudly of a citizens’ Europe. – Madam President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, having deliberated at its sitting of 15 and 16 May, agreed to recommend that the announcement in plenary of Parliament’s confirmation of the removal of Mr Jean-Marie Le Pen’s mandate be suspended. I repeat, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market recommended that this announcement be suspended until the deadline period that Mr Le Pen was given for appealing against the French Council of State had expired or until a decision by the latter. And I am quoting word for word from the letter dated 17 May that you yourself, Madam President, read in plenary. As you said, the Council of State rejected the appeal and we were duly informed of that rejection. There is therefore no longer any reason for delaying this announcement in plenary, which is an obligatory act according to primary law, specifically paragraph 2 of Article 12 of the Act of 20 September 1976. The request for a reprieve that you mentioned, Madam President, does not alter this situation, as it is not a legal appeal. As its name indicates, it is an act of the Prince, which does not affect the decree from the French Government which, in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, must be announced in plenary. – Mr President, as the last Member of this House to speak on this important report, whose rapporteur, Mr van Velzen, I congratulate, it seems to me appropriate to remind you that this Commission communication is the gateway to a great reform and a redrafting of the legislation on licences, data protection, universal service and access to the networks. That is the true sense of this communication and my first request to the Commission is that we act in this area diligently, and with some urgency, since time is passing at Internet speed. Each year is equivalent to four years and we ask that those proposals included in the Commission’s legislative programme be communicated to Parliament as soon as possible. I think that I can say, on behalf of the whole House, that we will show a special interest in making the parliamentary procedure as quick as possible, as dictated by the importance of the issues in question. I believe that the citizens expect this of us and that the Treaty of Amsterdam allows us to shorten and speed up these processes. Many important things have been said. Allow me to support what has been said with regard to universal service, access for schools, etc. However, there are three questions which seem to me to be more problematic. Firstly, we must establish a better definition of what public service means, failing which we will not be able to make progress, and for the same reason we must also define what the general interest in the field of telecommunications really means. Secondly, we must separate the regulations for private open television and public television, regardless of the transmission system. Furthermore – and this has already been said – it is necessary to promote dialogue between the national regulators and the regulators of society, of the private sectors, on this “co-regulation” which is a distinguishing mark for Europe. Thirdly, I will say that it is necessary to protect – and we are relying on the diligence of Commissioner Bolkestein who is responsible for this area – this system which we are putting in place on copyright, which is one of the great traditions of European culture which is in real danger in this new state of affairs. . – Mr President, I would like to ask the Commission to adopt a position on the request made in the legislative resolution for the appropriate measures to be taken in order for there to be a modification of the Community Customs Code, as mentioned by Mr Beysen and as I have also expressed. . – Madam President, firstly I would like to say that, in any event, we are all aware that we are facing a situation in which we have to find our way with few specific points of reference and therefore, we must resort to analogy, precedent, common sense and, in general terms, the general principles of the law. This is because in our statutory law, in our Rules of Procedure, there is no explicit mention of how to proceed in a situation such as this. Secondly, I wish to point out that there is doubtless confusion here. Madam President, you have consulted the Legal Affairs Committee on the basis of a purely formal decision. As on other occasions, such as, for example, when the Legal Affairs Committee examines whether or not to lodge an appeal in the Court of Justice, we are talking about a purely technical assessment by an internal body of Parliament, which makes a recommendation to the President, the external body of Parliament, who is expected to take the decision. I respect what Mr Barón Crespo says. His views were discussed and examined in depth by the Legal Affairs Committee. Allow me to refer to what was said in this committee. Firstly, Mr Barón says that there is no similarity with the Tapie case because the ineligibility in that case stemmed from a bankruptcy and in this case it stems from a criminal conviction. I do not personally share that view, and I believe that, according to the relevant law, there are reasons not to share it, because, in any event, we are talking about two sentences, both from French courts and both leading to ineligibility. It makes no sense now to look into the reason for the sentence. The sentence exists. The fact that it involves ineligibility is what concerns us. Mr Barón’s second argument concerning the difference between the cases related to the fact that Mr Le Pen has not lodged an appeal and that Mr Tapie had. I do not share this view either, and nor did the majority of the Legal Affairs Committee, because Mr Le Pen is still within the time limit for lodging an appeal. We therefore cannot go against something, to which he is entitled under French law: to lodge an appeal within a certain time limit. Please allow me now to refute Mr Medina’s statement on his interpretation of the matter. I would like to do this calmly, although I consider it to be absolutely unjustified and to warrant a more forceful response. However, in my capacity as chairperson, I must point out that the two letters are complementary. In the first letter, Madam President, you were informed that the Legal Affairs Committee had taken a decision not to take note of the judgement for the moment, bearing in mind that it is not final. It is enforceable but not final. In the second paragraph it said: “tomorrow we will continue to discuss this issue”. The second letter refers to what happened at the second meeting and all the members of the Legal Affairs Committee know that that was how I presented it. In no way was there any intention to hold a vote, but simply a discussion. I personally, as rapporteur, was going to propose a basis for discussion. There was therefore no place for a vote on the issue and I had stated that on the previous day. The vote had already taken place in the Legal Affairs Committee. Madam President, I did inform you of what happened in that debate and why it did not continue, and it did not do so basically because there was insistence on the issue of the Tapie case. Clearly, the Legal Affairs Committee can vote on anything, but since it was not laid down and since it was dealing with such an important and serious issue which did not appear in the agenda, it did not seem to me to be reasonable to hold a vote if we were taking a route which all the speakers – and this is recorded in the Minutes – for one reason or another, rejected. Furthermore, the Minutes also show that I said that a committee chairperson rarely obtained such a degree of unanimity with regard to a proposal. I say this in order to refute these statements. I would now like to make a comment in relation to the Rules of Procedure.  Madam President, Rule 7(4) is being cited. That paragraph – in the event that we had to resort to it, which I do not believe to be the case, and I will explain why – states that Parliament may express its opinion on a proposal. Madam President, there is no proposal to the plenary here. I believe that, in order to vote honestly, on an issue as delicate as this, if Parliament has to vote, a report should be produced in accordance with the rules, so that everybody may vote as they see fit, and not be influenced by allegations from one side or the other, bearing in mind that, in actual fact, the majority of MEPs are not aware of the background to this issue. Therefore, if the President wishes to take this route, a report by the Legal Affairs Committee is absolutely essential and it would be irregular not to proceed in that way,...  ... for Parliament to express its opinion on an issue for which there is no written document or anything whatsoever, and which requires legal consideration at the highest level. It is absolutely irregular and contrary to the Rule that has been cited…  ... because, Madam President, a majority in the Legal Affairs Committee considered, on purely legal bases, that we could not take note of this loss of MEP status.  Madam President, in my opinion, furthermore, this article is not applicable, and I will tell you why: Parliament is asked to take note. It does not have the option of making a political assessment. It is in the nature of all decisions in plenary that they be taken from a political point of view. In this case we are talking about a purely formal legal assessment. Madam President, I believe that it falls to the President to take this decision, and you may consult the Rules of Procedure, which states that you must consult the Legal Affairs Committee. An analysis could be made of the reasons why the Legal Affairs Committee should be consulted, as the internal advisory body in this case. I am prepared to make this analysis, because I have done so before.  Madam President, you can consult any other internal body and, in particular ...  ... the Conference of Group Chairmen. However, the House cannot consider this proposal in these circumstances. Mr President, committee amendments and political group amendments may be tabled in plenary, but not amendments from individual Members. Mr Schulz should be aware of this. –  Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and in my capacity as chairperson of this committee, I should like to use some of my allotted time to refute some statements in relation to our consideration of other committees’ opinions. The rapporteur is absolutely right, Mr President, to say that these amendments, though very interesting, are not relevant in this case. Firstly, everyone is aware how hard I have fought to establish genuine administrative law in this area, however, the report centres on a different issue. The same can be said in relation to the Committee on Petitions’ other amendment that refers to an interinstitutional agreement and appeals to the Council and the Commission for greater cooperation. We shall have to vote on these amendments, but in another report. With regard to Mrs Grossetête’s report, Mr President, the fact that I have only tabled one amendment – and even that was in conjunction with Mrs Grossetête herself – is proof of my appreciation of her work and the spirit in which it was carried out. Those of you who know me will be only too aware of the fact that, if I disagree with a text, particularly one that is close to my heart and to which I attach great importance, I never hold back when it comes to amendments. There is one issue that I hope Mrs Grossetête will raise during the vote – I unfortunately cannot attend, which is why I am making a point of it here – and that is the mistake in recital G. It should state that monitoring the application of Community law is first and foremost the responsibility of the courts. As regards the other issues, this report is, in my view, thorough, comprehensive and of great importance. I should like to mention a few points in relation to Mrs Grossetête’s report. We should perhaps consider broadening its scope, not only to encompass Annex IV and the development of Article 65, but also possibly take it further and perhaps consider –as part of the creation of the Europe of the Citizens – setting up communication channels to enable citizens to discuss issues that affect them in relation to Community law and even the Treaty on European Union. Next year, Commissioner, we should like to see a more balanced and exhaustive report drawn up. As Mrs Grossetête herself pointed out, this report is very balanced and exhaustive in some areas but not in others. The overall message put forward is that Community law must be applied properly; our Community is a Legal Community; there will either be a European rule of law or not; and monitoring compliance with Community law must be considered a priority. Lastly, I should briefly like to highlight the importance of the infringement procedure and draw people’s attention, as others have before me, to this reform which is desirable and on which we all agree. We need to improve the way in which the infringement procedure operates, but do so in a way that does not prevent citizens in the slightest from fully exercising their right to directly contact the Commission which, at the end of the day, is what brings them closer to it. As we so often speak about bringing citizens closer to the institutions, this is surely one of the ways to achieve this aim. – Mr President, allow me to begin by congratulating everyone who has been involved in the creation of this directive and especially those who have done the hard work of negotiating during the conciliation procedure, which I know has been hard, although I personally have not followed it – I followed the two readings, but not this third reading. As the esteemed Member, Mrs Thyssen, has said, this directive deals with what it can and must deal with, no more and no less. I believe that this is a magnificent definition. The Commission’s initial proposal was much more ambitious, but since we are moving in that pioneer territory of the internal market – that territory which involves elements which are still the competence of the Member States such as procedural rules and civil law, ownership reservations, or Article 5 of the procedure for the recovery of non-contested debt etc…– the Commission’s proposal was not in accordance with the Treaty, since we lacked a legal basis. The present proposal is less complete, if you like, but no less effective. I believe that it will have significant repercussions, which have been listed by previous speakers. Above all, I am going to highlight one more, and that is that it opens up the road to seriously dealing with the need to fully enter into this pioneer territory. This is because, today, there are still genuine obstacles to the perfection of the internal market, genuine obstacles to the four freedoms laid down in the Treaty, precisely because we do not have a clear legal basis. Now, with the Treaty of Amsterdam, we may have a clearer legal basis, but we must make a great effort to establish effective coordination and harmonisation in all of these areas. – Mr President, I would like firstly to congratulate the Commissioner. I believe that this is a great achievement. As he has said, this is probably the most ambitious internal market project we are currently dealing with and I am happy to say this on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and as rapporteur on this issue. It is ambitious, Commissioner, because, in addition to what you have said, there is a fundamental reason, based on the principles of the internal market, for having a Community patent. If we want our internal market really to be a domestic market for companies and consumers, the current fragmentation suffered by patents, resulting from national borders, makes no sense. Having said this, it is an ambitious and difficult project, because, as you have mentioned, it requires a change to the Treaty and to the constitutions of at least four or six Member States. Therefore, Commissioner, I pray that there will be excellent cooperation between us, which we are going to need, and the capacity for negotiation so that this project can be taken to its conclusion. – I would firstly like to apologise for having arrived late for this debate: I was in another meeting and that is why I am speaking last, despite the fact that I have had the honour of taking responsibility for this issue on behalf of the European People's Party. Mr President, my first words are words of thanks, and I can also add my thanks as Chair of the committee, for the work carried out by the rapporteur. I say this sincerely. I believe that it would be hard to find a more complex issue, on which pressure has been unleashed from all the interest groups, which have legitimately fought to have their positions adopted by the various political groups. There are few issues on which we have received so many, if not tonnes then at least metres of faxes and e-mails as we have on this one. The rapporteur has been masterly in his navigation of these turbulent waters; he has always remembered that a rapporteur is rapporteur for a committee, not for any group or any position: he is rapporteur for a committee and he is duty-bound to reflect the majority position of that committee. I am pleased to say that the amendments put forward by the rapporteur were supported by a huge majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. Mr President, please allow me now to make some comments which are going to reiterate what has already been said, because at this point in the debate everything has really been said already. This is a much-criticised directive, and it is worthy of criticism; but this is a case, as is so often the case in European integration, in which what is best and what is feasible are not the same thing. As has already been said, we are starting from a situation in which there is complete divergence between the laws of the various Member States, where in reality the concept of copyright, the whole gamut of obligations and rights which this concept is represented by in our different laws, is not even similar. It is not simply that are not the same, but that they are not even similar. To try to harmonise them is an heroic quest. This directive is a first step, but Parliament accepted this gamble on first reading and therefore it has to be consistent and continue in this vein on second reading. At first reading we could have adopted disruptive positions; that was not Parliament's approach, and we accepted a directive full of exceptions. At the moment, the amendments of the Committee on Legal Affairs, added to certain other notable amendments which deserve to be supported, improve this directive on certain substantial points, such as private copying. I refer to what has already been said. And in summary they improve the directive by making it a first step in a system of harmonisation which will have to be carried out over time, a first step which furthermore will enable us to fulfil our international commitments, since until this directive sees the light of day, the two WIPO Treaties will not be able to enter into force. That is also an important responsibility at a time when we talk so much about globalisation. . – Mr President, the recommendation which it is my honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, proposes that the plenary adopts the common position without amendments. I have to say that this attitude has also been adopted by the various political groups. Mr President, I would like to stress that, by approving the Council’s common position on electronic commerce tomorrow, this House will be showing a very great degree of political responsibility of great institutional significance. Furthermore, by approving this directive, Parliament will be taking a decisive step in favour of the competitiveness of European businesses in the ‘on line’ economy and will be setting a milestone so that both consumers and companies will be able to operate in the internal market with the same guarantees and the same ease with which they operate in their domestic markets. The directive ensures that companies and citizens are able to provide and receive information society services throughout the European Union, which will thereby become a genuinely border-free area. European companies will be able to offer goods, services and information within the Union in accordance with the regulations of the Member State in which they are established and, therefore, in normalised circumstances, without being bound by 14 different sets of legislation. In order to arrive at these results, the directive harmonises certain areas, in particular – to name the main ones – the place where the operators are established, their obligations in terms of transparency, the requirements for transparency in commercial communications, the conditions required for the conclusion and validity of electronic contracts, the responsibility of Internet intermediaries, the settlement of disputes, as well as the competences of national authorities. In other areas, the directive is supported by the existing instruments intended to facilitate harmonisation and the mutual recognition of national legislations. Mr President, the directive includes – and this is important – all information society services, both business to business and business to user services, such as those which allow electronic operations to take place – interactive telesales of goods and services, on-line ‘shops’, for example; services which are offered free, such as those financed through advertising or sponsorship, the on-line press, on-line databases, on-line financial services, on-line professional services – lawyers, doctors or other professionals – leisure services such as video on demand, direct marketing and all services accessed via the Internet. The directive is also – as I have already said – a great example of interinstitutional cooperation. This directive is a magnificent example of teamwork by Parliament, the Commission and the Council. Therefore, Parliament’s position on first reading, in particular its decisive support for the principle of the country of origin, was crucial to the Council in order to avoid the balance of the text being jeopardised. In general, the common position follows the guidelines set by Parliament and, apart from some marginal cases, no significant amendments are added to the annex which provides for the exceptions relating to the principle I have mentioned. Balance is also maintained with regard to the provisions concerning consumer protection and the responsibility of intermediaries. I would like to express my thanks, as rapporteur, for the cooperation of all my colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and in particular the leaders of the various political groups – especially the support of Mrs Berger and Mr Harbour from my Group – and the other institutions. The common position, therefore, maintains the balance between the various general objectives and the various interests, and we have not therefore tabled any amendments. It is clearly not a perfect text, but we consider it to be a reasonable and acceptable one, and it is crucial that it is adopted as soon as possible. I will not repeat – although it is true – that Internet time is much shorter than time as we have known it up to now. We must also understand that this directive is a priority in terms of guaranteeing the development of electronic commerce. We must take account of the globalisation of the economy and competition from US companies and the legal framework of the internal market which strives, as on the Internet, for a space with no internal boundaries. All of these elements are Community assets as far as the competitiveness of European companies is concerned. Lastly, the development of new technologies and market-related innovations make it essential that we establish a legal framework for the development of commerce, while, as this directive ensures, areas are set aside which are suitable for self-regulation and for the development of specific codes of conduct. This directive, furthermore, will provide a significant stimulus to small- and medium-sized businesses so that they will embrace, without delay, this commerce without frontiers. They are currently not doing so because of the legal uncertainty involved in dealing with many different sets of legislation within Europe. Lastly, several Member States are already legislating in this area and, without this directive, we could see a genuine fragmentation of the internal market. This directive, furthermore, Mr President, is a milestone which will affect all Community initiatives which have an impact on electronic commerce. The legal framework established by this directive will facilitate the adoption of other Community directives, such as the one on copyright, the distance marketing of financial services or the controversial Brussels Convention on jurisdiction, and will clearly help to remove the risk of incompatibility between these initiatives and the principles of the internal market. Parliament intends to monitor closely the transposition and application of the directive in national legislations, and I have therefore included two recommendations, two reminders to the Commission, which I hope will be approved tomorrow, not within the framework of the directive, but within the framework of the legislative resolution; one on the procedures for the detection and withdrawal of illicit material, and another on the drafting of codes of conduct. Lastly, Mr President – and with this I will end – it is symbolic that Parliament is approving this directive on the eve of the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the declaration by Robert Schuman, in which he stated that Europe would not be created in an instant but through achieving specific objectives which would create genuine solidarity between citizens and businesses. Fifty years ago, ‘specific objectives’ referred to the European Coal and Steel Community; today, as this directive points out, they refer to the information society. For this reason, Mr President, I believe that tomorrow this Parliament will be worthy of congratulation, and this congratulation can also be extended to the other Community institutions. – Mr President, as former Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and as it was under my chairmanship that this very issue was debated, I asked if I could be the last to speak on this subject. I would like to make it quite clear that, from the very outset, the Committee on Legal Affairs considered this matter to be a legal issue of enormous political significance, since it dealt with Parliament’s prerogatives and the inter-institutional balance. Having said this, from the very beginning, the Committee on Legal Affairs was extremely aware that the priority in this case was not to hinder the entry into force of this directive, which had been under discussion for thirty years and, in fact, the decision made by this Committee specifically requests that, in the event of a decision being taken to refer the matter to the European Court of Justice, the outcome of this would be upheld, even if our decision were overruled. In saying this, Mr President, I am expressing my respect and understanding for the fact that the decision that has been taken at this time – which appears to reflect the majority opinion in this House – responds to the concerns of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would even go further than the comments made by some of my fellow Members. In this case, if the European Parliament does not refer the matter to the European Court of Justice, it will be showing a greater degree of political responsibility. Because although it is not giving up the defence of its prerogatives, it understands that there is an immediate greater value in postponing the referral of this matter to the Court. I believe that the European Council declarations will strengthen our position, and not only the Barcelona Council but also the Intergovernmental Conference, and it is to be hoped that we can put an end to the imbalance in legal bases which has arisen as a result of this situation. – Mr President, those involved in the construction of Europe have always been prepared to take risks. This has certainly been the case as far as the protection of the Community’s financial interests is concerned. Parliament, notably its Committee on Budgetary Control, has indeed taken risks. We should pay tribute to the determination shown by Mrs Theato who chairs that Committee and is one of the rapporteurs. Whatever is achieved in this field will be largely due to her efforts. Having said that, I must admit that along with many other Members I share the Commission’s concern. We need to work towards creating an area of justice, but we must do so in a responsible manner. Throughout the whole process of the construction of Europe, the forces attempting to hinder it have consistently taken advantage of the mistakes made by more enthusiastic individuals when they lose sight of the Treaty. This is why I am bringing a critical note into today’s debate. I do not wish to argue against the concept of a European Public Prosecutor, but I am concerned about laying down the details of the necessary statute. It is indeed a transitional statute but a statute nonetheless. The House needs to give due consideration to this office. Not only should the Committee on Budgetary Control give it due consideration, but so should the House itself. Such consideration should also involve dialogue with other institutions, notably the Commission. Not until that has taken place will we be in a position to move forward together and present a proposal consistent with the Treaty. The same applies, in my view, to the Commissioner’s comments on the rapporteur’s idea of resorting to a regulation in place of a directive. That is not within Parliament’s competence. It falls within the competence of our societies and of states governed by the rule of law. Only in very specific circumstances may direct obligations be imposed on citizens from a Community level. This is why I have ventured to voice some criticism here today, Mr President. I am, however, full of admiration for the work completed. – Mr President, I should like to thank the French Presidency for its clear and unequivocal words and – I think I speak on behalf of the whole Parliament here – I welcome its concern on the matter, something that the Presidency-in-Office once again demonstrated today during the debate on terrorism. Mr President, there is in fact one thing that the people of Europe are unable to comprehend, and that is why criminals in Europe enjoy all the advantages of the freedom of movement, whereas those who legitimately fight crime are hindered by the issue of borders. This issue is also of concern to Parliament, as the representative of our citizens, which is why, ever since the start of this debate, Parliament has been acutely aware of the need to make progress in this area. Mr President, the Treaty of Amsterdam marked the beginning of the so-called ‘communitisation’ of many policies, but not those relating to criminal matters in both procedural and substantive terms. The reasons behind this are not always immediately obvious to the people of Europe: they are rooted in our legal cultures and in the differences between our legal cultures. However, Mr President, over and above these deep-rooted differences lie the most deeply-rooted common principles which ultimately boil down to something as simple as the need for trust between Member States. The construction of Europe is based on the mutual trust that exists between Member States and the mutual recognition of similar levels of protection regarding fundamental rights, legislation and basic principles. This is why – and here I recall the ever enlightening and splendid words of Commissioner Vitorino who called for common definitions to be established in the field of organised crime and similar rules to be laid down regarding the sentences imposed and the time served – this is an issue that must be studied in the long term, as the idea of “vérité en deçà des Pyrénées, erreur au delà” [all that is truth this side of the Pyrenees, all that is falsehood beyond], cannot hold true. We cannot afford such luxuries in this area. In the meantime, Mr President, we are making progress in the area of trust and mutual recognition and the Council has submitted a proposal that is supported by the various Member States. As we are in the process of reaching this last stage of development, we must firmly ensure that an order or resolution pronounced by a judge in a Member State is automatically recognised and implemented by another Member State. In other words, an arrest warrant for a terrorist should take effect immediately without the need to go through the highly complex extradition process – which is still complicated between European States – so that the terrorist or criminal can be taken immediately to the State that wants them and where they have committed their crimes. This, Mr President, is what we urge you to do and what we hope will soon become a reality. –  Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Spanish delegation to the Group of the European People’s Party to explain why we abstained in the vote. Abstention does not normally mean taking a clear position but in this case it does. We abstained because, on the one hand, we support the symbolism and principles of the fight against racism and xenophobia, and some of the points in this report contain important statements, for example, paragraph 8, on the functions of the European Racism and Xenophobia Information Network and paragraph 24, which invites the Member States to prioritise some very specific issues in this fight, to mention only two. But, on the other hand, by contrast with the Haarder report which we voted for this morning, this report is long on radical demagoguery and short on legal rigour. Now this Parliament, as co-legislator, should know that any statement it makes has either legal value or, as in this case, quasi-legal value, and that is why greater care must be taken. Let me give you just one example of this: paragraph 22, which seeks to give substance to European citizenship, by granting rights to vote in European and local elections to third country nationals resident in the Community. That obviously violates the Treaty right away. It is badly drafted. And I could give further examples of this kind of thing to justify our abstention. Mr President, like the previous speakers, I was going to start by welcoming this initiative from the Finnish Presidency. It is therefore a pity that the President-in-Office of the Council left in the middle of the debate. It does not seem right that we cannot have a proper debate when such an important document is presented. All we are going to get now is a continuous monologue without any response from the other party. In that respect, my words are rather pointless. However, following on from what was said by the two speakers who came before me – and with whom I disagree – I must say that the fact that Europe, and the European Union in particular, is making human rights its banner – in fact its only banner – is a marvellous thing. This does not mean that everything is perfect and that there is nothing to correct; indeed, the report says as much. The text could be improved upon in many respects – from the internal point of view, for instance –and certain paragraphs concerned with racism and xenophobia provide perfect examples of this. An improvement could also be made by including in the text the EU’s contribution to the fight for human rights in the international sphere. We are faced with a number of challenges and all of this is mentioned in this document which, I must repeat, is an excellent initiative and constitutes a remarkable inventory. I am only sorry that the President-in-Office of the Council is not present to hear this. There are various initiatives which we could comment on if we had the time. I will mention just one in which I think the European Union should be actively involved, namely the establishment of the International Criminal Court which would end the current situation in which the judicial instruments available to us are quite incapable of dealing with international requests for legal proceedings. . – Madam President, in these circumstances Parliament has powers which are fully regulated, in the absence of a uniform electoral system, by means of Article 12 of the 1976 Act concerning the election of representatives of the European Parliament by Direct Universal Suffrage, of which paragraph 2, which I will read in French, since that is the text I possess, says: [“Where a seat falls vacant pursuant to national provisions in force in a Member State, the latter shall inform the European Parliament, which shall take note of the fact”.] We are therefore talking about a formal and fully regulated competence. In fact, Madam President, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, it falls to the Legal Affairs Committee to examine these issues, but those Rules also stipulate that, on the basis of a report by the Legal Affairs Committee, Parliament shall proceed without delay. We are clearly dealing with an issue which cannot be delayed, since the presence and the right to vote in this Parliament of an MEP who is no longer an MEP would be a completely irregular state of affairs. For that reason, Madam President, as soon as I received a note from the competent departments, I called a meeting of the Legal Affairs Committee, which will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. – Mr President, allow me to begin by highlighting the work of both the rapporteur and Mrs Echerer, the draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I have had the opportunity to work with the rapporteur in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and it has been an honour for me to chair the committee that voted for Mrs Echerer’s excellent opinion. Mr President, we are facing a situation which is real problem: the progressive disappearance of internal borders means that non-EU citizens in both legal and illegal situations are moving freely amongst the Member States. If we are going to be realistic, this is a problem which, as the two rapporteurs have stressed, we must deal with fully, and, I might add, as a matter of urgency. My view of the Finnish initiative is much less critical than theirs. I believe we should stress the fact that the Finnish initiative was a very significant step forward from the moment it was put on the table, because it led the Council to get involved in a very urgent issue. In other words, at the time, the Finnish initiative played a fundamental role, and we might say that it has died as a result of its own success. The thinking behind the Finnish initiative means that its proposals no longer have any point, because they have now been fully adopted. What we need now is not a provocative initiative which points its finger at the problem and starts a debate, but rather we need to get down – calmly but immediately – to resolving this problem. Apart from that, I agree with many of the criticisms that have been made. I also agree with one which has been made implicitly but which has not been stated directly. We, as a legislating institution, cannot amend just any text; there are texts which are not amendable and texts which require a complete amendment. This is what we have done in the case of the Finnish initiative, at least in the PPE Group. We welcome the courage of the Finnish initiative, but we believe that this initiative will not seriously enable us to carry out the responsibilities that the European public has entrusted to us. Why not? For the reasons which have been expressed, and which I would probably just be repeating: this initiative takes account of one aspect, the most repressive one, but that is only one aspect of the problem. What we need now, given the developments since Tampere, is a more global vision. The rapporteur is absolutely right to point out that this initiative does not take account of questions of procedure, or fundamental guarantees for the procedure, nor does it provide the necessary protection for the fundamental rights of those people who will be caught up in this type of procedure. Finally, it has not been pointed out – and I think it is important that it is – that what we do in this area must be coherent with the Member States’ principles regarding readmission of third country nationals. All these types of bilateral agreement that are required are being negotiated. The PPE has presented two amendments which I hope this House – to take up what the two previous speakers have said – will support in tomorrow’s vote, thereby sending a political signal, and we ask the Commission to present a complete and coherent text sooner rather than later. – Mr President, the President of the Commission will not be surprised if I speak to him about the internal market. So as not to repeat what has already been said, in particular what has been said by Mr Fiori, who I agree with, I will refer to another central point of the debate, i.e. the reform of the Commission. What has the reform of the Commission to do with the internal market? The answer is a lot. Mr President of the Commission, on reading your White Paper on the reform of the Commission, it is clearly apparent that the guiding principle, the philosophy behind this reform, is something very vague which we cannot accept in this Parliament. This guiding principle is mainly the protection of the Community’s financial interests. That is clearly of concern to all of us, but it is only a starting point. From there on, the Commission must begin to work, and must fulfil its obligations in accordance with the Treaty. Allow me to give you an example, since the speaking time allotted to me does not give me much opportunity to expand on this idea. Let us consider the intended reform of the infringement procedure. What is the intention there? It is simply to administrate the existing resources on each level, instead of hearing this Parliament’s demand that we should create a genuine administrative procedural law for ensuring legal certainty, which is necessary from the point of view of the European citizen, that is to say, from the point of view of the people who may have recourse to this infringement procedure. It is simply said that this administrative procedural law will not be created, but rather demands will be selected. How can this be? How can these things be selected in a purely arbitrary way. From the point of view of this Parliament, this type of arrangement cannot be allowed. We understand that the Commission has to be reformed. We agree with the objectives of this reform. However, it should not lead to the abandonment of the great momentum of European construction, for the sake of protecting the Community’s financial interests, however important we may all agree that that is. The Treaty obliges the Commission, primarily, to provide that momentum. – Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I appreciate that the task is very difficult. As for you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, it is clear that we are talking about an area in which an obdurate attachment to sovereignty is in evidence which, in my opinion, should be totally banished. It is with good reason that we identify nationality with the flag, the police and the judge. And that is what we are talking about: the policemen, the judges and what is behind the flag, at least the flags of the States of the European Union, which is the defence of human rights. There is no doubt that you are experiencing difficulties because the functioning of the Presidency of the Council is complex. There is no doubt that you are experiencing difficulties as well because taking decisions in the highest body, the European Council, means starting with general principles, and the will to act. In other areas, such as building roads or establishing Trans-European Networks, these general principles make sense. However, ladies and gentlemen, at this summit we want something more specific, especially in the area of justice. It cannot only be a summit on immigration nor, of course, only on security. Of the three areas – freedom, security and justice – the one which is furthest behind and needs most promotion is the area of justice. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, there is a lack of specific proposals. It is not a matter of providing access to justice or legal aid to victims. It is a matter of proposing a uniform procedure for small-scale actions. Talk about this, do not talk about general principles or simply the fact that we all have to co-operate, because if we carry on like this, the Tampere Summit will not be a success. –  Madam President, in support of the urgent procedure, and to specifically respond to this point, I would like to repeat that this is not a case of Parliament giving its opinion on a list. The matter in hand here is whether Parliament should support a decision made by the United Nations Security Council. This is an act adopted by the United Nations Security Council that the signatory States and the European Union – as representative regional power in some cases of signatory States – should support, but in which it cannot participate. Chapter VII(40 and41) of the United Nations Charter makes reference to the fact that the Security Council can implement any measures it deems necessary and that the signatory States must – for this is a mandatory act – apply them. Therefore, any amendment of these lists falls to the Security Council. What the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is asking – and we will implement it – is that the Council, as representative of the European Union, and the Member States that form part of the Security Council, keep an eye on the arbitration of procedures and mechanisms within the United Nations Security Council with the aim that, if there is any natural or legal person included in this list that should not be there, an exception can be made. – Mr President, please allow me to begin with a few words in my capacity as Chairperson of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. Rarely have I felt as proud of my position as I am today in relation to this report, due to the work that has been carried out in committee over the last year. The fact that it has taken a year does not mean that Parliament has not been interested. On the contrary, there has been intense and fruitful debate between the members of the Committee, as well as people from the academic world and all the interested parties. I warmly congratulate Mrs Wallis on having made this work possible, as rapporteur, and of course I thank the secretariat of the Committee on Legal Affairs for the work they have done and, in particular, as Mrs Wallis has also mentioned, the work of Mr Bray. We have had disagreements, Mr President, but I am sure that whatever the result achieved in this House tomorrow, the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs will have moved this issue forward significantly. I shall now continue, Mr President, on behalf of the PPE. As you well know, and as the rapporteur has reminded us, the main question being debated deals with judgments by the competent court on contracts concluded with consumers on the Internet. I would like to say once again how proud I am at the balanced and detailed nature of this report. It proposes pragmatic solutions, which are likely to increase consumer protection and at the same time allow businesses, in particular small- and medium-sized ones, which make up the social fabric of Europe, to offer their services and products to consumers resident within the internal market. The internal market must be a genuine domestic market, both for businesses and for consumers. As for the consumer, it is proposed that the scope of the special system be extended to those who sign contracts at a distance within the internal market with no distinction whatsoever between directed and undirected activities and, as the rapporteur has highlighted, it incorporates the extrajudicial resolution of disputes into the regulation. With regard to the promotion of cross-border electronic commerce, it is proposed to allow businesses, under certain very specific and very restricted circumstances, to insert jurisdiction clauses which the consumer could accept. Mr President, I am convinced that Parliament’s opinion will have a real impact on the Justice and Home Affairs Council. In fact, as Mrs Wallis has said, Parliament has done what neither the Commission nor the Council has dared to do, which is to hold a realistic debate on the basic question, on the protection of consumers in the 21st century, not the protection of consumers in the 19th century, nor the 20th century, with all the interested parties and taking account of all the interests involved. When we examine the history of this issue, we realise that the Commission, in making its proposal, has limited itself to a draft review of the Brussels Convention, carried out by a committee of experts before the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, i.e. when this was an intergovernmental matter, very close to international public law. Furthermore, Mr President, that committee worked alone, with no transparency, with no interministerial consultations and without consulting the interested parties. It is clear that the Justice and Home Affairs Council expected that, given the weak institutional powers of this Parliament in this field, even after Amsterdam, the final adoption of the regulation by the Council would be a mere formality. The clear unwillingness of the Justice and Home Affairs Council to open a debate on this question indicates that in recent times Parliament has been subject to every type of pressure. After more than one year of discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I can say simply that the arguments levelled against its report lack foundation and are more the result of intimidation and demagoguery than of basic reasoning. Let us look at this briefly. Some people are trying to politicise the debate, hoping that that will create a left-right division, trying to take the consumer hostage, saying that the report would prejudice their protection. This argument is both demagogic and unjustified and is ultimately based an antiquated form of protection, which is ineffective and grounded in a nationalist view that runs counter to European construction. The solutions that have been adopted offer much more protection than those proposed by the Commission or – and here I disagree with Mrs Wallis – those presented to Parliament, which in reality limit the protection solely to consumers targeted by an Internet site, by a business. Pseudo-legal arguments have also been put forward, such as the supposed incompatibility with the directive on abusive clauses or with the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice. Well, there is no incompatibility with that or with anything else and allow me to quote the report, issued by the SANCO Directorate-General on 20 September 1999, which says, and I quote in French because it is the only version that exists: “The jurisdiction clauses are therefore possible and legal, within the meaning of this proposal, provided that certain conditions are guaranteed”. It continues: “It is therefore necessary for the consumer to be clearly informed before signing the contract”. It is precisely for this reason, Mr President, that the Committee on Legal Affairs requires strict conditions of transparency. It is therefore not true that this report goes against an intended Community objective. Lastly, and perhaps this is the most cynical of the arguments, people say: “Well, this creates difficulties for small- and medium-sized businesses, but they should be insured”. That is like saying: “There should not be firemen in towns or cities. If a house burns down, the owners should be insured”. We must create good legislation, which is balanced for everyone. To end, I disagree with Mrs Wallis’ solution, despite the fact that we have shared this adventure, because I believe that at the end of the day her solution does not offer more protection to the consumer, since it only protects the consumer which a company has targeted. A lawyer could spend years and years pondering which jurisdiction should apply in the case of active or passive sites or directed or undirected activities. In conclusion, Mr President, it seems to me that in this field of judicial cooperation Parliament must send a clear signal to the Council and the Commission that it will not accept being sidelined or manipulated by dogmatic arguments that represent purely nationalist interests. Instead, by dint of its thorough work, Parliament has here a great opportunity to demonstrate that pragmatic and reasonable solutions can be found to rebalance this proposal whatever the result tomorrow in this House. – Mr President, being the last to speak gives me the privilege, Commissioner, of telling you that the majority of this House supports your initiative and has expressed a total, and, I believe, justified, confidence in you at the helm of this boat. But we all want to be oarsmen on it. We all belong on the same boat and want to row with you. I therefore believe it to be absolutely necessary to establish an interinstitutional dialogue so that we might reach a good conclusion and put all the finishing touches to this essential reform. The many ideas which have been expressed here could be put into three broad categories. Firstly, there is the concern that some have expressed, in particular Mrs Randzio-Plath, President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, of whether this new system of legal exception is absolutely compatible with the Treaty. I share that concern and I believe that this issue should be addressed. Secondly, we have the issue of companies’ legal certainty. It is true, Commissioner, that the Commission is not a machine for manufacturing legal certainty. We all agree on this. But it is nonetheless true – and this has been repeated from all sections of this House – that the European industrial fabric is composed of small and medium-sized businesses, and that the Commission often plays the role of , of legitimising the nature of the internal market. On this point I will give my opinion on something which Mr Karas said. There have only been nine rejections. But here I would like to call on my experience as a lawyer. How often has a lawyer with two companies and one project, in the face of a Commission guideline given , changed that project in order for it to comply with the competition rules! This is therefore an aspect to be considered. Thirdly, we have the problem of the uniform application of Community law. In this respect, the excellent speech by Mrs Thyssen cannot be improved upon. I believe that biodiversity is good, as is cultural diversity, but not diversity in the application of the law with regard to the essential core of the internal market, that is to say, competition law. Here improvements should be made. Only in certain countries, Germany for example, is there specialised jurisdiction. Perhaps this is a promising avenue to explore, but we must also explore others. What we cannot do, Commissioner – and I would like to end on this note – is to give way, and give ammunition, to those who regard the European institutions as the property of the great and the good, of the rich, and not of the citizen, or the small and medium business, which, in the worst case scenario – which will never become reality because the requisite measures will be applied to prevent it – will result in courts which make disparate judgements, very late, with no real possibility of control apart from what the French call ", that is to say, after Lord knows how many years, when the Court in Luxembourg passes judgement, a Court which we know to be inundated at the moment. Commissioner, it is impossible to overstate the importance of this reform. It transcends competition, it transcends the cohesion of the internal market. I believe that it profoundly affects the meaning of European integration, the meaning of the legitimacy of European integration. Therefore, Commissioner, we are relying on this interinstitutional dialogue to put the finishing touches to a reform which we are all hoping for and which we believe will lead us to a successful conclusion under your direction and with our cooperation. . –  Madam President, I think that today our thoughts should focus on the basics, which are the good fortune and responsibility of living in democratic States governed by the rule of law. In a democratic State governed by the rule of law, any political demand is acceptable and to be respected and the democratic confrontation of ideas is always to be welcomed; these are our standards, our very essence, our identifying mark, on which the whole idea of European integration is founded. By the same token, however, the democratic State governed by the rule of law rejects those who express their ideas through bloodshed. When faced with those who sow the seeds of terror, death and destruction in our societies, there is only one dialogue possible, the dialogue that arises from the implementation of the law. This is our guiding thought on this matter. I said that we are constructing, on the bases and principles of our legal systems in democratic States governed by the rule of law, a democratic Europe governed by the rule of law. We had a situation that was completely lacking in balance between progress in the field of security and progress in the field of freedom and justice. The three proposals debated respond, and it was about time, to a request from Europe’s citizens and to the clear political will, at the highest level, of the Heads of State and Government, which, as Mr Watson has clearly pointed out, runs from Vienna to Tampere, and has been strengthened since 11 September at the Extraordinary European Council in Brussels and in Ghent. These three methods also respond to the principles upon which Europe has been constructed. Firstly, cooperation and coordination, as seen in Eurojust, where we cooperate and coordinate in order to be more effective in the field of justice. Secondly, the mutual recognition on which the internal market is based, and this, as the Commissioner has said, a corollary of the confidence between States, which is the fundamental element of the European search and arrest warrant. Finally, harmonisation wherever this may be necessary and the need for harmonisation with regard to terrorism is obvious, because only six Member States had any legislation covering this area. Madam President, I trust, no, I am sure, that by voting for these reports with an overwhelming majority tomorrow, Parliament will be giving, as it always has, the political signal that, as responsible representatives of the citizens, we have the obligation to work on the construction of democratic States governed by the rule of law, in those countries in which we are fortunate enough to live. –  Madam President, this proposal for a Regulation implements Resolution 1390, adopted on 16 January of this year by the United Nations Security Council, pursuant to Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. With regard to the 30 days required for signatory States to adopt the measures that correspond to the implementation of the aforementioned United Nations Resolution, the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs yesterday voted in favour of the urgency procedure and for there to be a procedure without report, that is to say, that it should pass directly to plenary with time for amendments to be tabled by the political groups. I would ask the Presidency to set a long deadline for the tabling of amendments to take account of these circumstances. I would like to make two further observations. The first is that, in order to implement Resolutions such as Resolution 1390, the European Union should take two different types of action: one which corresponds to the second pillar, common foreign and security policy, and another within the framework of the EC Treaty. Yesterday, the Commission almost unanimously came to the conclusion that Parliament should work on the development of instruments in the second pillar, in other words, the development of the common position that is being adopted at this time. And, if Parliament is not involved, it should at very least be kept informed, for what is laid down in the Treaty is one issue, and common sense and the idea that this House is the true representative of citizens’ interests is quite another. My second observation is that the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights has expressed a great deal of concern in this regard and will formally request that the Council and those Member States that form part of the United Nations Security Council make use of those procedural mechanisms needed to correct possible non-justified inclusions of names of natural or legal persons in these lists. This is currently the cause of much public concern in EU Member States. Finally, we would ask the Commission not to force us to take this kind of action. Parliament cannot seriously be expected to support this decision with only five days notice, for it is not really a question of issuing an opinion, but of supporting this United Nations Resolution, when the Resolution was passed on 19 January. We would ask that in future we be more rapidly involved in the process of drawing up this type of Regulation in order that this Parliament can provide its support with full knowledge of the facts and not, as in this case, in a truly unbalanced effort. . – Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to highlight the excellent work carried out by Mrs Berger and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market generally, which has incorporated innovative ideas into this directive, which I hope will be approved by the Commission and the Council. Nevertheless, I have tabled an amendment. Mrs Berger, in your Amendment No 2 to Recital 6, you mention legal security. The first point on which we disagree is the duration of three months for the residency permit, since all that does is create legal insecurity. You rightly raise the concern, also expressed by Mr Wieland, at the possibility of workers disappearing into thin air when their work permits expire, but I think that we would be making this even more likely by bringing in a three month permit.If the validity of the service provision card expires on a certain date, it must end on that date. Legal security requires this. On the other hand, with regard to point d of Amendment No 10, which refers to the first directive, you suggest that, for reasons of public security or public order regulations, a Member State may reject the validity of the card. There are already some  controls laid down in article 4 of the directive. It makes no sense for any worker within the Schengen area, since he or she will already have undergone a screening process in order to enter the first Member State, and the second Member State would be justified in rejecting the entry of that worker into its territory. It therefore makes no sense to maintain that legal insecurity. In the case of a non-Schengen state, in the last paragraph of Amendment No 22, that possibility is contemplated, and is perfectly expressed, and I believe this provides greater legal security. The discretional power of the State, which you propose in point e of your Amendment No 10, seems to me to be inconsistent with the rest of your excellent report. I would therefore ask Members to examine my amendment carefully, and I hope that tomorrow we will achieve a result. . – Madam President, I am sure it will come as no surprise to you if I talk about citizens’ freedoms and rights and justice in relation to this fascinating report, whose two rapporteurs I congratulate. It is the view of this Committee that the construction of this area of justice is important and, to this end, a reform of the Court of Justice is necessary. In order to reform the Court it will be necessary to amend the Treaty, so that the Statute and the Regulations of the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance become operative. None of them is currently operative. Our first demand is therefore that qualified majority be established with the assent of the European Parliament. With regard to the Court, Parliament also asks to be able to participate in the process of selecting judges as already happens with the posts in the constitutional courts in our states. On the other hand, with regard to freedoms and rights, we want citizens to be provided with full rights to appeal so that they can be assured that Community legislation will be enforced in the event of violations of fundamental rights. This is not currently the case. We want to see a reform of Articles 230 and 300 of the Treaty so that Parliament is on an equal footing with the Commission and the Council as far as appeals are concerned. Lastly, Madam President, we want to see a reform of the Treaty so that Parliament, in relation to the third pillar, also has full access to justice by means of repeal in the event of regulations and acts which do not conform. – Mr President, Commissioner, the luxury of time allows me to try to teach by example: Once upon a time, before the advent of the Treaty of Amsterdam, there was a Council which was debating an amendment of the Brussels and Lugano Convention: not for them the mysteries of the technical questions: it was a judicial problem. In other words, before which judge does one have to raise one’s concerns in the event of a transnational dispute. The Council, unanimously and within the framework of intergovernmental cooperation, that is to say, with very little sense of Community, very close to international public law, had arrived at an agreement in principle. But, lo and behold, the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force and, in accordance with Article 65, it became necessary to communitise that amendment of the Brussels and Lugano Treaty and to turn that new convention into a Community instrument: a regulation. Then the Commission entered the scene and, very promptly, and in order to take initial advantage of the new Treaty of Amsterdam, decided that the communitisation of an instrument was simply a case of changing its title: instead of calling it a convention, you call it a regulation. And that is that. Thus, the Commission, with no prior consultation, with no consultation amongst the various Directorates-General, presented a draft regulation on these judicial questions. Today, in this Parliament, a report is being presented – still simply an opinion, since in this field Parliament still only has limited powers – drawn up by Mrs Diana Wallis, who I hope will speak on the matter. From this – and my story ends here – we must draw some conclusions: Firstly, there is a lack of coordination in the Council, because the Council does not mean the Council. It means the Council in its “Justice” form. And I will go further; it takes the form of experts, of professors of international private law, who are the people who have been negotiating the international treaties which, at the end of the day, deal with this specific question. There had been no consultation with the Internal Market Council or the General Affairs Council. Also, however, and this is more important for the future, there has been a lack of coordination on the part of the Commission. It is true that it was experiencing very difficult times – it had resigned – but there was a lack of coordination in the end because the hearing on this issue took place after the publication of the proposed regulation, in violation of the most basic principles of efficiency and also respect for the citizens and this House, as well as other issues. Furthermore, I believe that this example illustrates the difficult and demanding situation, or challenge – as you wish, Mr President – which we are facing: internal market principles, principles of international private law. That is to say, does the communitisation of an instrument, which will have to happen often, simply mean saying regulation instead of convention? The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market believes that this cannot be the case and I hope that Parliament will take the same view. The communitisation of an instrument, first and foremost, means the screening of each of the regulatory proposals with respect to the founding principles of the internal market, in particular, the principle of mutual recognition and the principle of control in the State where it originated. In reality, communitisation means having respect for the internal market. This is important because, at the moment, completing the internal market means dealing with that border country which surrounds the regulations already in force and which, because they are rooted in procedural law and, of course, in many areas of international private law, lack clear definition. Therefore, if we lose the principles which guide the internal market, we are indirectly emptying it of its substance and heading for extreme danger. And to this we can add another danger. In this age of digital revolution, we may tend to say, ‘We are global. The internal market has become too small. Let us regulate on a world scale. What is the internal market for? Let us go beyond the internal market’. Let us remember that European integration has been built on the internal market and that, furthermore, we are obliged by a Treaty to respect the principles which sustain and shape this situation. “What about the consumers?”, you may ask. Well, in the example I gave, it appears that the intention is to protect consumers by offering them the opportunity to seek justice with the judge next door, their local judge. Will this protect them? I am afraid not. The evidence lies in the fact that consumers do not consider filing claims when they buy a small item, when they buy something from the local shop. Why? Because it is very expensive and long-winded. That is to say, if we want to protect consumers, we need to adopt measures, for example, the two measures presented by the Commission, the small claims procedure or the extrajudicial settlement of consumer disputes. This protects consumers: quick, cheap and effective procedures. Furthermore, Mr President, protecting consumers also means treating them as adults, not thinking of them as being incapable of making a choice. I believe that, at the moment, one of the great challenges facing Europe in this digital revolution is to change the culture and principles of consumer protection. We have to protect consumers, but protect them in deed, rather than in word, and we have to accept a culture of risk, a calculated risk for the consumer. In other words, they must be able to make fully-informed choices. I will end, Mr President. Europe must defend its values, but Europe has another great challenge; the balance between public legislation and self regulation. In order to defend consumers, we need a solid and protective framework of public legislation, but we also need to create an area where we can establish systems stemming from civil society which are more in accordance with our times than those which stem from the public institutions. The other day, at the Madrid Summit, somebody said to me, “Mrs Palacio, on the Internet, one year becomes two months. A directive which takes you four years is too slow”. Let us be quicker, let us maintain our values but, of course, let us remember that our internal market must be a priority. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, as the last to Parliamentarian to speak, there is one thing that comes to mind: you have spoken of the Tampere spirit and I believe that there is also a Tampere signal. It is a strong signal that Europe is no longer just a market and that the European citizen is no longer just a consumer or a worker; that the citizens, in all their forms, with all their worries, with all their needs, with all their demands, are at the centre of European construction. And it seems important, bearing in mind everything that has been said here, to point out an issue which, in my opinion, symbolises this setting for the citizen. At Tampere, a quasi-constitutional transformation has taken place, because the Council has given the Commission a mandate to establish, on their proposal, common rules on admission and residence, on small claims and many other issues. In this way we are moving from a shared right of initiative to a right of initiative which is wholly in the hands of the Commission. It seems to me that this, from the point of view of European construction, is enormously important. In the final seconds of this debate I would like to highlight judicial construction and the fact that the citizens, in addition to security, the police and the fight against crime, wish to know that justice is on their side, in any part of Europe, and that they will find justice before any judge. This is another of the great messages of Tampere. Commissioner, you have said that a lot of things were left undone in Tampere and it is true. But there is – as the French say – . You have at least fifteen enormously important mandates to perform. We in this Parliament hope that those proposals will be on the table very soon. – Mr President, I shall speak with right on my side. Personally, I believe that we are making a mistake, largely due to the way the original regulations of OLAF were put together, but that is another question. Here we must have a very clear idea about why this Parliament requires an absolute majority for questions which affect MEPs. You have given the reason, Mr President: because we are looking for a broad consensus. We cannot hide behind a technical question that there are agreements which are not incorporated in the regulations. This is a matter which must remain outside the regulations and therefore the logical and reasonable thing – and rules, when the law is the law and not just formal texts, must be reasonable – should be that this be supported by an absolute majority in this Parliament. Any other approach would fundamentally contravene the very essence of the parliamentary Rules of Procedure. – I must start my speech by referring to certain allusions that have been made. Whilst I have the utmost respect for Mr Barón Crespo, he said something that, as with so many things that are being said in this House today, he left unclear. We are compatriots, yes, we are all aware of that, and it is a great honour, may I add. I am surprised at the tone of this debate. I am surprised because you pointed out that we are discussing an issue that is essentially legal in nature, and we need to keep it within the boundaries that you, Madam President – and I would like to highlight this – have kept it within, come hell or high water, thus demonstrating conviction and legal certainty. Mrs Frassoni started by making an accusation that I think discredits itself. That is not all, however, as Mr Corbett, Mrs Hautala and Mr Barón Crespo also seem to be telling us that the important thing for an institution is who gets there first, and to be saying that we need to move faster, that we are going very slowly. That is not the point of the issue, as you so rightly pointed out. Here there are major doubts, doubts that are justified, as to whether the procedure was formally correct, and therefore time does not matter. We have to wait until the necessary legal steps have been taken in order to dispel that doubt. It is unfortunate that we were not able to obtain an answer before, but what is most unfortunate is that it was not sent through the usual channels according to the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to make a couple of points to Mrs Hautala, with all the admiration that she knows that I have for her. Mrs Hautala, in the case that you mentioned and which you have consulted, there is a fact, aside from the two that the President gave to you. In the Official Journal it shows that the request came from the Minister of Justice, as it also shows in the report, but there is a letter from President Kleps, by which the President of Parliament notified the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, in which the Ministry is also mentioned. Are we perhaps to think that in this Parliament, which drew up that letter, the official who drew it up is not able to tell whether something comes from the Ministry of Justice or not? Therefore, an assumption has been made, despite the fact that there is no documentary evidence, but assumptions have been made, and very strong ones, that in one way or another the letter was sent through the Ministry of Justice, because I cannot believe that the person responsible for drawing up that letter for the President at the time was not able to tell and would say explicitly in the letter that it came from the Ministry of Justice if that was not the case. Madam President I think that, as the Conference of Presidents very wisely decided, we should wait for Mrs Garaud to deal with this matter and to take the steps that she deems appropriate as the person mandated by the Conference of Presidents. We need to give it that time. With regard to the delay, I would like to say that this case is taking a long time, but that people should take a look in the files of the Committee on Legal Affairs. At the moment, for example, we have a request for the German Government that has not been answered for nine months. That is how it is, and it is there for all of you to look at. Finally, Madam President what is the problem that we are faced with? It is a problem, if you will allow me, associated with the happy event of the growth of Europe in the context of a Europe of justice, the area of justice, because here the Supreme Court is arguing that appeals can be made to the European Parliament just as they can to national parliaments. In my opinion, with the law as it stands, this is still not possible. Let us hope that it will be in the future. Personally I hope so, but for the moment let us be content with respecting the law that is in force. We do not want voluntarism, which, as you so rightly said, Madam President, would only lead us to the Court of Justice. Mr President, I am sorry that Graham Watson is not present, because I wish to begin by paying tribute to his work on these two reports, in his capacity as chairman of the Committee on Public Freedoms, Citizens’ Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. As I have inherited this position, I feel, if possible, even more obliged to acknowledge the work that has been undertaken. I agree fully with what he has said, but with one important difference. We are talking about minimum guarantees of procedure as if there were none. There are, and although they are not common, which is the case in many areas, they are equivalent. They are also adequate for the time being. Not having – as European citizens who wish to establish a common area of justice – to become involved in discussing how to improve these guarantees is another matter altogether. We must make a clear distinction between the two issues. The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, together with the Socialist Group, will vote against these amendments, not because we are against the issues, as some speakers have claimed, but because we must make it clear that all Member States have minimum guarantees of procedure which are adequate and equivalent. We must, therefore, act on the basis of this trust. We all want to be more ambitious for the future, however. The European Union flies the flag of human rights and guarantees and, therefore, when we establish this area of justice, we shall do so resolutely, in the committee that I chair and in this Parliament, as far as we can in this legislature. We will never consider it to be enough. – Mr President, Commissioner, while I have respect for Mrs Paciotti, I must begin by pointing out the ambiguity of her words. Clearly, what you are proposing is not a “yes, but”, as you have been arguing, but rather a “no, unless” and Parliament should be aware of this. It is a “no, unless”, as you have pointed out correctly, in the event that the system is not operative before the judgement on adequacy is confirmed, if these amendments regarding compensation for moral damage or damage to property are implemented and if we do not establish a right to cancellation or a personal right to judicial claim. In this light, I would argue, and I hope that the majority of Parliament will vote likewise by means of the amendments presented by my group and others, for a “yes”, but on the strict condition that we see realism, respect for the law, respect for institutional balance, but above all, Mr President, respect for the citizens and their interests. The opposing position is unrealistic. It is unrealistic since the negotiation has been satisfactory, given the context, the adversary, or opposing party, and the legal context, which I will return to. I am talking about a serious interinstitutional problem, since this Parliament is not undergoing a codecision procedure, it is not tabling amendments. We do not have that option. What we have is a power granted to the Commission and certain Member States who have unanimously backed this position. What is our intention? It is to safeguard our responsibility, as established in the very ambiguous Amendment No 6. Because, Mrs Paciotti, it is our directive, we voted for it. We did not establish a criterion of equivalence, but rather a criterion of adequacy, and we established that the Commission was responsible for assessing that criterion of adequacy and a committee of the Member States was established which has unanimously adopted this position. Mrs Paciotti, if we want to change, let us change the directive, but let us not try, through this kind of subterfuge, which is totally against the law, to achieve a situation which will not benefit the citizens, because if these were the only criticisms made, I would support you. At least, I would support you if the directive were reformed. But you would have my support, anyway. However, it does not benefit the citizens. You say that information can currently be provided by means of a contract. It is not realistic, Mrs Paciotti, you know it is not realistic. At the moment, the information is circulating without any guarantee. Let us turn now to the Safe Harbour. To say that the Safe Harbour must be operative before we pass judgement on its adequacy will lead to its collapse. This is because no company is going to accept its implications in terms of investment and change, unless it knows that it will be guaranteed the possibility of having access to the free circulation of information. I must point out that the United States have at least 25 years of experience in this type of system, which supports the idea that this can work and that it is going to work. And it  going to work. With regard to appeals and damages, you, who are a great legal expert, know that an institution can only be analysed in context. Analyse it, therefore, within the context of the United States’ legal and judicial system and the conclusion will be completely different to the one you have reached. The majority, not all, but the majority, of these rights involve legal redress, in the last instance, after having been subject to a complaint to the competent governmental body. And neither does this rule out legal proceedings. This is because American legislation, in relation to economic damages, does not consider moral damages and we cannot demand that they change their legislation. Lastly, cancellation. This goes against the principles established by the OECD in 1980. I will end, Mr President. I hope that tomorrow this House will support this position which, as I have said, is ultimately in the interest of the citizens of Europe. – Madam President, firstly, I would like to speak as chairperson of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market to point out, following on from what Mr Haarder said, that Mr Rothley, first Vice-Chairman of the Committee, is not a spokesman but a rapporteur, and I think that so far he has conducted himself impeccably within that mandate. Secondly, I would like to speak in support of Mrs Morgantini’s motion. I think we are at a stage in the process in the Middle East in which dialogue between Palestinian and Israeli female Members of Parliament and European female Members of Parliament could contribute to resolving this conflict. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, from the rich holds of this ship of fifteen oarsmen, the appropriate European symbol of the Portuguese Presidency, please allow me to highlight the European digital challenge. For me, the digital revolution is, amongst many other things, above all, a revolution in the system and culture of distributing goods and services. This means that we need to establish positions on certain specific issues which are contained in your programme. Firstly, we need to reflect anew on the balance between public and private regulations, on the balance between the law and what is normally called ‘soft law’. The reason is that in digital time – as someone said the other day at the Madrid Conference – one year is equivalent to two months, and four years, which is a reasonable time for the handling of a normal directive, is equivalent to 24 years. That is excessive. Secondly, we need to give consumers and small and medium-sized businesses confidence, and create a climate and culture of taking controlled risks, although this may seem contradictory. For consumers, we have to implement excellent Commission initiatives, based on Tampere, in the field of the extrajudicial settling of disputes, but we also have to treat consumers as adults. For small and medium-sized businesses, we have to reinforce the dialogue which you are proposing, with companies and citizens, within the framework of the internal market. But there are also very specific things, such as taking a clear stance, in accordance with business culture, on Article 15 of the new Brussels and Lugano legislation, without which we could spoil this great project of an ‘E-Europe’. Lastly – and here I agree with what Mr Cox said – we have the challenge of transatlantic dialogue. We will not achieve anything if we do not lessen the distance which separates us from the United States, in coordination with them. Therefore, on this issue, I believe we need tremendous coordination, tremendous cooperation and, of course, tremendous drive. “The ship is setting sail” – that is an idea from Portuguese navigators since the Middle Ages. I believe we are going to spend the next six months in the hands of good helmsmen. – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Council and the Commissioner for their words and, of course, congratulating the rapporteurs, Mr Bushill-Matthews and Mrs Bastos. Chapter II of the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights, entitled ‘Freedoms’, in Article 15, tells us that 'Every citizen of the Union has the freedom to seek employment, to work, to exercise the right of establishment and to provide services in any Member State'. I believe that this article should be promoted to the category of a fundamental right in terms of the free movement of services and persons. However, there are still many obstacles to the mobility of the workforce, qualified or non-qualified, between the Member States, which prevents us from having European labour markets open to all and, probably, as a logical consequence of this, causes territorial imbalances and situations of injustice, social exclusion or poverty. These are all obstacles to the achievement of the objective set at the Lisbon European Council and ratified at the Barcelona European Council. The European Union must become the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth, accompanied by more and better jobs and greater social cohesion. Hence the need to modify and simplify social security systems and enshrine the principle of the transferability of supplementary pension rights. It would be appropriate, and perhaps necessary, to create a mobility plan which has a real effective impact on the lives of the citizens, and mainly in specific regions such as cross-border areas, with the involvement of the local authorities, reinforcing the local dimension of employment. This impact must also be felt in specific material areas and areas of competence, such as the service economy and the environment and of course, with the participation of social agents, in a fluid and easy communication between the professional and educational sectors, taking particular account of the importance of training and education systems in relation to the development of a culture of mobility, creating horizontal policies, such as policies on equality and others, because the different options are not exclusive and self-contained compartments, but part of a whole, a series of actions intended to develop the European social model and realise the principles that certain visionaries – I say this with respect – perceived more than 50 years ago. At the end of the day, as the Commissioner has said, it is a question of those who want to move around throughout the European Union being able to do so. – I would, of course, like to start by congratulating all the rapporteurs. Having said that, I would like to point out that the approval of these two directives constitutes an important step within the construction of European labour law and, therefore, in the construction of a social Europe, and all this, furthermore, by means of dialogue and mutual concessions from positions which were initially comprehensible. Of course, the inclusion of the self-employed may go against the entrepreneurial spirit as my country maintained. In relation to the general framework for information and consultation, the Chapter IV of the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights, entitled ‘Solidarity’, begins with Article 27, which establishes, under the title ‘Workers' right to information and consultation within the undertaking’, that ‘Workers or their representatives must, at the appropriate levels, be guaranteed information and consultation in good time in the cases and under the conditions provided for by Community law and national laws and practices’. Article 136 of the European Union Treaty already indicated that social dialogue was an objective of the Community and the Member States. It therefore seems logical and necessary that, outside other specific directives, such as Directive 94/45/EC, a single directive should establish a general framework which lays down minimum requirements for the exercise of the right to information and consultation in undertakings and workplaces within the Community. These rights, previously laid down in the European Social Charter of 1961, and in the Community Charter of the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers, of 1989, are now, as I have said, included in the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights. It should surprise nobody that workers, via their representatives, should be aware of the situation and development of the undertaking, the decisions which are to be taken and their repercussions and effects for the future, since their existence and, above all, subsistence, are often linked to the undertaking. Of course, the content of these rights must be aimed at strengthening the undertaking, increasing employment possibilities and adapting workers to new or revised production processes. Nevertheless, experience demonstrates that the mechanisms have not always worked well: workers have become involved late in the process of decision-making, when decisions had already been taken. I therefore feel that the content of Article 4 is particularly worth highlighting... – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Howitt on his work on an elaborate report in which it would have been easy to either go too far or not go far enough. If we look at the concept of companies, there was a longstanding economic concept that a company was an organisation of people, which, through controlling goods and services, had the aim of producing goods and services for a market. This is a purely economic concept. However, the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, which was recently enacted in Directive 2001/23, talks about a company as an organised group of people and elements enabling a business activity to be conducted pursuing their own objective. This is clearly a much broader concept which we could also relate to recital C of the report, which says that within companies and among investors a consensus is developing that they have a broader mission than simply making profits, and that the challenge for success lies in combining profitability with sustainability and responsibility. I think that companies, whatever their format, however many staff they have or whatever funds they have, live in a global world in which their voluntary, encouraged and prompted contribution, and I realise what I am saying, I am not saying compulsory or imposed by law, to achieving a better society, has a new meaning. As it says in the Green Paper, although the main responsibility of the company is to generate profits, it can also contribute at the same time to achieving social and environmental objectives, and that should not be seen solely as an obligation or responsibility for particular types of companies or companies that operate in particular sectors. I think that this is a good instrument for fulfilling the Lisbon strategy: an economy that is as developed as possible, creating more and better jobs, which respects the environment and guarantees social cohesion. It will ultimately be a suitable instrument for establishing the European social model and it will also be good for companies, because profitability and social responsibility go hand in hand and cannot be separated from each other. –  Mr President, those of us who have devoted ourselves all our lives to studying social issues will remember that the old manuals used to include a definition of social protection as a set of state protection measures to cover economically assessable risks affecting individuals or families which individuals – family units – could not cover themselves. Health is, of course, one of the assets that we as individuals most value, though very often when we have lost or risk losing it. It is, moreover, a fact that social systems – protection systems – have been suffering from the influences and consequences of economic, demographic and public health situations, etc. And it is also a fact that economic recession, unemployment, social exclusion, the appearance of new diseases, the ageing of the population, as well as advances in research, improved therapies, the development of new techniques of diagnosis and treatment have all had a profound effect on the levels of mandatory social and health cover. It is a proven and verifiable fact that Europeans are being protected against the risks of illness, maternity or old age (and there are more risks associated with old age these days because of the ageing of the population) not just by the essential and mandatory social and state schemes of social security or social protection. Articles 34 and 35 of our fledgling European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights recognise and respect the entitlement to social security benefits and social services and, at the same time, proclaim the entitlement of everyone residing and moving legally within the Union to social security benefits and social advantages in accordance with Community law and national laws and practices. Complementary private health insurance, whether voluntary or not, coexists with the mandatory public system and can be a way to achieve quality health care within a given time. I therefore believe we should lend our support to what Mr Rocard has put in his report – and we congratulate him on it – asking the Commission to provide a service, a Green Paper which will enable us to see the current insurance situation in the Member States and also to define the future. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, may I begin by congratulating Mrs. Hermange on her good work and on the quality of the report, which by now has become customary. Much has been done in Europe in recent years concerning employment. Specifically, in my country, the People’s Party Government, during its two terms of office, has created more than 4 300 000 jobs. Clearly we all agree on the need to reform our employment strategy, with a considerable degree of stability, and we all also agree on the importance of the three objectives – full employment, improved labour quality and productivity and strengthening of social cohesion – and we will agree on both the common recommendations and the specific recommendations. I should like to stress the importance of certain principles which must underpin the application of employment strategies, in addition, of course, to a principle already often repeated here – the need to coordinate economic policies and social policy – and I should like to emphasise the need to horizontalise policies such as equality, health and safety in the workplace and integration, which seem to me to be essential objectives in the construction of Europe as an area of freedom, security and justice. I should also like to emphasise, Madam President, the need for improved productivity in the face of relocation – which has already been highlighted by Mrs Bastos – which has disastrous effects on territorial cohesion and the necessary polycentrism of the European Union. I believe that increased productivity and labour quality are the best remedies for slowing down relocation. Nowadays this makes many European citizens sceptical about the European Union. It also seems to me that the link between the structural funds, territorial restructuring impact policies and employment policy is vital for the achievement of territorial cohesion, a tool  for genuine polycentrism in the European Union. The need for concerted action on the part of the European Union, the Member States, the regions and local authorities and, of course, social dialogue, are other important tools in the application of these directives. – Mr President, Commissioner, the Constitution of my country solemnly states, in Article 14, that all ‘Spaniards are equal before the law, without any discrimination for reasons of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion, or any other political or social condition or circumstance’; and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in Article 20, Chapter III, states that ‘Everyone is equal before the law’; and in Article 21 that ‘Any discrimination based on any ground such as sex,…..shall be prohibited’, and other circumstances are stipulated; and Article 23, under the heading ‘Equality between men and women’ lays down that ‘Equality between men and women must be ensured in all areas, including employment, work and pay. The principle of equality shall not prevent the maintenance or adoption of measures providing for specific advantages in favour of the under-represented sex.’ If we compare these general principles, these solemn declarations, with social reality, with the everyday world we live in, specifically in terms of the achievement of women’s equality in the field of representation amongst the European Union’s social partners, one conclusion immediately springs to mind: there is still much to do. Mrs Smet’s excellent report expresses this perfectly, and I congratulate her on her work. Women make up approximately 40% of the members of the trade unions in the European Union, but there is no proportionality between their presence within the membership of the trade unions, on the one hand, and within the decision-making and governing bodies of the trade unions, on the other. Furthermore, women, although the data on this is rather imprecise, make up a minority in the upper levels of company organisations. Declarations of intention without commitments are not sufficient to turn the principles I have mentioned into a social reality. We therefore need strategies aimed at increasing the presence of women amongst the social partners and I believe that an artificial system of quotas is not the right or desired solution or approach. A fairer society – in a European Union in which 42% of working people are women – cannot tolerate an under-representation of women in the bodies and structures within which social interlocutors meet to define, regulate and agree on issues relating to social policy. Perhaps women themselves are partly responsible for the situation being analysed here. I believe that the horizontal integration of the gender dimension into the different policies, the action programmes – preferably measures to reconcile work and family life – the efforts of the social agents themselves, training and information, measures to stimulate the participation of women, positive actions and action programmes, are ways to achieve equality and this, in turn, is a means, an instrument, for building a better, fairer and more caring society through social dialogue. – Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs on the work they have done, which, while certainly not reaching the zenith or the high point which the studious amongst us may have wished for, nevertheless represents important progress in the development of what in the future will be a genuine European company with all the characteristics appropriate to that concept. Max Weber defined the company as an organisation which, while controlling them, is intended to produce goods and services for a market. Obviously, a company can be owned by a physical person or by a legal person, and it is general practice, also derived from the will of the individual businessperson to restrict their responsibility – particularly relating to property – towards third persons, that the businesses of certain economic entities adopt the form of companies. Of course, the company means plurality, the organisation of goods, but above all of services. It is therefore logical – and I am referring essentially to the social aspects – that there be particular study, analysis and regulation of the involvement of workers in the European company statute and that in a dual system, with a general council and a management and supervisory body, or in a single system, with simply an administrative body, the feelings and knowledge of workers be taken into account, listened to and accepted by means of their representatives, and that workers understand the progress of the company, the risks, the vicissitudes and the objectives it is pursuing. I do not have time, and I believe it is unnecessary, to refer to the methods and degrees of participation, to the negotiating body or to the role of the European company in the structuring of European social life. However, please allow me to refer to the role of the representatives of workers at the point of closure of all or some of the establishments in one or various nations, staff relations, the creation of subsidiary companies and, in general, to all the decisions which are essential to the ordinary life of the company. Also important are the transitional period of three years, a high degree of uniformity in the application provisions of the regulation and the transposition of the directive, which would endorse the , facilitate the nature of the European company and help to create more Europe, to the benefit of companies, employment and consumers. – Mr President, I am going to talk almost exclusively about the maintenance of the Irish Box, since it illustrates the poles of opinion dividing clearly defined parties; despite this, Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries had managed to adopt a report which I believe clearly combines the interests of the different parties since, on the one hand, it responds to the concern of a majority to protect sensitive areas from irresponsible fishing, and on the other, maintains that it is necessary to eliminate any discrimination suffered by Community fleets of any Member State. The maintenance of the  is not justified from either a scientific point of view or a legal point of view; it consists of a political concession granted to a country 18 years ago, to make it possible to reach an agreement on the accession of Spain and Portugal to the European Union. The restriction of access to a fishing area cannot be extended indefinitely, particularly if it affects a specific fleet. Several judgments clearly indicate that the rules relating to equal treatment laid down in Community legislation not only prohibit explicit discrimination on grounds of nationality, but also prohibit any disguised form of discrimination by means of the application of differentiation criteria which have the same effect in practice. The transitional period for Spain's accession to the European Union ended in December 2002, and from January this year all restrictions should have disappeared. From a scientific point of view, any measure for the conservation of resources is justified, provided that is not discriminatory. In the case of the Irish Box, the measures advocated by some people go even further than the initiatives recently taken to protect cod stocks, a species whose situation cannot be compared with the situation of angler fish, hake or john dory in the Irish Box. The Act of Accession to the European Union by Spain and Portugal contains the explicit decision to remove all restrictions of access to Community waters in December 2002; legally, for reasons of legislative hierarchy which everybody, from the legal expert to the uninitiated in law, understand, the Regulations of 94 and 95 cannot replace the Act of Accession. All fishing areas considered sensitive, without exception, must be protected and dealt with in the same way by means of technical measures, including by means of bans, but without discrimination. Those of us who vote against Amendment No 20 tomorrow, Mr President, want sustainable fishing resources, but also equality for all countries, discrimination against nobody and we are opting for Europe. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating and thanking my fellow Iberian Member, Mrs Figueiredo, for her good work. Lisbon, Nice, Stockholm and more recently the Barcelona Summit, are dates, places, cities, memories of summits which illustrate the social temperature of the European Union, dates when the European Union committed itself to creating a better and more developed economy, more and better jobs, sustained development and social cohesion. But we should remember the harsh reality: it might shock many of us if we were to stop and think, or if we read in the media, that in the countries we live in, the percentage of the population living below the poverty line (bearing in mind the commonly accepted criterion of income less than 60% of the national average income) is 8, 12, 14, 19 and even 22% (with an 18% average in the Union as a whole), and also bearing in mind that, although the European Union has recorded an average rate of GDP growth of 2.5%, levels of poverty and social exclusion are still very high. Mrs Figueiredo’s report includes a series of considerations of measures for fighting social exclusion. I would like to highlight two or three of them: firstly, the development of an integrating labour market and the promotion of employment as a right and opportunity for all, a measure which sometimes means having to take decisions which, as is happening in Spain, may be opposed by some; that is why social dialogue is so important, but it must be proper social dialogue involving reciprocal concessions, dialogue in the true sense of the word. There is no question that employment is the best way to ensure integration. We also need to promote training, new technologies, in view of the risk of technological illiteracy, and, above all, an integrated and multidimensional strategic approach, sex equality, education and environmental good practice as well as improvements in social services. And of course – and I will end here, Mr President – joint action. I agree that this should be executed at the lowest possible level, but I must also say that, probably, that execution should also be compatible with promotion actions, with actions carried out by other administrations. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for his attitude towards the amendments I have proposed. The European Commission's initial proposal of introducing a recovery plan for Northern hake was not – or at least did not seem to be – anything more than an unjustified transposition of the measures applied to the recovery of cod to this species. Clearly, the executive Committee did not take account of the latest opinions of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES), according to which the hake stock will reach a level of total safety if over the next five to eight years the level of mortality from fishing is maintained. It will therefore reach a safe biological level, to use the term recently used by the Commissioner. According to this information, it is not necessary to implement a drastic recovery plan for Northern hake. Rather than a recovery plan, it would be more appropriate to implement a management plan in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 2371/2002, in a manner which is compatible and also consistent with the biological and environmental component, on the one hand, and socio-economic factors on the other, within the context of the new common fisheries policy. That is the will expressed by the Committee on Fisheries in its opinion: to replace the recovery plan proposed by the Commission, which imposes severe restrictions on the fishing effort and extremely serious social consequences, with a management plan which allows for the establishment of a total allowable catch that is compatible with the maintenance of the reproductive biomass. The European Commission recently presented another proposal for the recovery of Southern hake stocks and langoustine stocks, and it has not calculated the socio-economic consequences for the sector of the measures proposed in that case either. A scientific study is therefore needed, as well as the opinion of the new regional advisory councils provided for in the reform of the common fisheries policy. Furthermore, we should also stress – and I will end here, Mr President – that the Council of Ministers for fisheries last December committed itself to consulting the professionals of the sector before drawing up an action plan for these species. The involvement and participation of the sector in decision-making should not be forgotten given that these decisions affect the viability of fishing, jobs, living conditions and the very survival of families which live in European regions highly dependent on fisheries policy. And I believe that we must insist on this involvement and this participation. – Mr President, the company is clearly an example of plurality. According to Max Weber, a company is an organisation that, in controlling goods and services, aims to produce goods and services for a particular market. It is also clear that those who lend their services to a company cannot always relate to their employer directly or on a personal level, above all when the number of employees in that company exceeds a certain level. There therefore needs to be the implementation of some kind of permanent and flexible mechanism which would facilitate this relationship, functioning in a way that is simple yet effective and which can deal with the multitude of issues that arise in a company every day. The everyday life of a company, in this day and age, takes place within a global world – globalisation is the key word – a globalisation which does not exclusively affect large or very large companies, but also those of a small or medium size, because they are also having to function within this environment. So, what exactly is the problem? Well, we need to regulate rights to information and consultation with true content within the specific framework in which we operate, that is to say that it is not a simple case of paying lip service to these declarations, but neither do we want to go too far, depriving the management of its powers. I think that this is what Mrs Ghilardotti set out to achieve in her arduous and efficient work: I think that she was seeking this point of equilibrium, and, yes, it is difficult – I would say practically impossible – for some delegations, such as the Spanish, to vote for the content of Amendment No 12, and for the rest, we have to underline the work she has undertaken and congratulate her on her effort. Evidently, a company’s own capacity to adapt, more necessary today than ever before, is going to be strengthened if we are able to convey its needs, concerns and prospects to all its workers. More than just an exhaustive regulation, we are talking about an advanced communication culture within the company. –  Mr President, I think we should begin by congratulating ourselves not only on the quality of Mrs Glase's work, but also on the fact that this subject has come before Parliament. We are living in a Europe that is increasingly closer to its citizens and therefore we cannot omit to concern ourselves with employment, as employment, together with health, is one of the main concerns of the citizens and, I dare say, especially of those who are unemployed because they have lost their job or perhaps never had one. We should ask the question whether those who are working in the hidden economy, working on the black market or, to use the most common term, carrying out undeclared work, really have an adequate job? I do not think this is the right time to detail the harm done by undeclared work to the public funds and those carrying it out, due to their own position of insecurity, and to other employers, competitors or otherwise, and society in general. The economic causes of undeclared work, increased income for workers, the opportunity to save on tax and social contributions or the reduction in costs for the company, are not unrelated to its existence and a significantly higher rate of growth than that of the legal or official economy. To refer briefly to the sectors or groups in which undeclared work has the most scope for expansion, we need to include multi-job situations where the income obtained from this illegal work is supplementary; economically inactive people who have greater flexibility in terms of time and the case of the unemployed who want an additional income, often turning down offers of legal work. We must also consider the situation of illegal immigrants who cannot carry out other forms of work. In addition to these easily visible situations, it is assumed that there are also many cases of production decentralisation, outsourcing or subcontracting which, in a less direct, less visible way, can lead to undeclared work. A situation which must be prevented and which I would like to consider is that of the new type of work via the Internet, teleworking, part-time work, which can be an easy breeding-ground for undeclared work. Mr President, we must anticipate this, as Europe must opt for secure, stable, quality work, and undeclared work is neither stable nor secure and nor, of course, does it demonstrate solidarity. Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, we are dealing with a report which I believe to be of profound social, legal and political importance. This is because the completion of the internal market must lead to an improvement in working conditions, because the Community will support and complement the Member States’ actions in the fields of health and safety protection of workers, as laid down in Article 137 of the EC Treaty, and because all workers have the right to a restriction of maximum working time, to daily and weekly periods of rest, and an annual period of paid holiday, as well as to work in conditions which respect their health, their safety and their dignity, as laid down in the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights. The issue is very simple, therefore, on a theoretical level. The first aspect is the reference periods for the application of Article 6 (maximum weekly working time): four months, as laid down in Article 16 of the Directive, or, where appropriate, the possibility of extension in the cases laid down in Article 17: up to six and twelve months if implemented by means of collective agreements or agreements between social partners. The second aspect is the power not to apply Article 6 if the worker is in agreement, the system of opting-out, as has been said here already. Clearly, a consequence of extending the reference periods would be to increase the flexibility available to companies. The only limit would be the eleven hours of rest daily or the twenty-four hours of rest weekly, but the directive would be losing its purpose and only regulating the maximum four-monthly, six-monthly or annual working time, depending on the particular case. With regard to opting-out, the potential for abuse is obvious, particularly in a situation of legal equality but not economic equality between the protagonists in working life. Directive 93/104/EC is intended to guarantee a higher level of health and safety protection for workers, as reiterated in Directive 2000/34/EC. We should therefore seek effective solutions to the cases and activities which require them, such as those involved in the judgments mentioned here, Simap or Jäger, but with objective criteria and conditions, to be used generally and in a non-abusive fashion; and under no circumstances turning the exception into the general rule. I therefore believe that before the vote we should seek agreements which combine legal guarantees for workers with creating more flexibility, in the spirit of Directive 93/104/EC. – Mr President, I shall begin my short intervention by thanking the rapporteur for the work she has done. Having said this, I will express my views on certain points of the report which, in my humble opinion, could have been dealt with differently, and on amendments and proposals which are difficult to accept, above all by professionals in the field of prevention; of course on the basis of the view that there is no such thing as zero risk and that work is an unpleasant activity. I agree with the rapporteur that combating noise in the workplace is the best thing we can do, but I do not agree that collective protection measures should always have priority over individual protection measures. In any event, I believe that they are complementary or supplementary, or that individual measures should be applied rather than collective ones. We must consider the distribution of responsibilities; it clearly falls to the employer to provide the means, and it is they who have the disciplinary policy measures to ensure they are complied with, but the worker is no less responsible, and cannot ignore their responsibility, since they are the first to be affected if they do not adopt individual and personal protection measures. I also disagree with you somewhat with regard to the scope, since I believe that, rather than talking about including the self-employed within the scope, it would be preferable to include them by means of the concept of workplaces and the person responsible for them, particularly in view of the increasingly frequent externalisation of many activities in numerous work sectors. Amendment No 15 deals with an issue which is perhaps purely grammatical. Where it speaks of hearing protection measures ‘likely to be used’, I believe we should say ‘of mandatory use’. Furthermore, there are activities involving a different intensity of sound at different times, which must be considered and resolved. I liked what the rapporteur said about music. All of this, Mr President, Mrs Thorning-Schmidt, must be done from the point of view of providing quality employment with less risk to the health and safety of workers, and this objective demands legislation which is clear in its principles and in its wording. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, first of all I would like to congratulate Mr Jové Peres on his work, on his report and on the common sense that inspired it. Today, Commissioner, in reality, the painful situation that my country, Galicia, is currently experiencing as a result of the  tragedy takes precedence over any other consideration. Contemplating the state of the Galician coast following the disaster, and the Galician people, in their sorrow, anger, bravery and concern, who, despite everything, are looking to the future, seems to me to be the best proof that Galicia, the north-eastern region of the Iberian Peninsula, is heavily dependent on fishing, and not only because 20% of its gross domestic product comes from fisheries and related activities. I would also like to reiterate all the requests made by the rapporteur, Mr Varela. What I have just said relates to Mr Jové Peres’ report because the Galicians, in the face of the  disaster, are working courageously to mitigate the terrible social, fishing, economic and environmental consequences. I believe the three aspects are inextricably linked as parts of a whole. The proposal on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy must be based on and committed to sustainable development and environmental protection. Both ideas are starting points, hinges, upon which the construction of CFP reform rests. Sustainability would clearly be guaranteed if there were no development, but depending on the starting points – which are sometimes deductive and other times not well founded, but which, in all cases, are questioned or questionable – the solutions can vary, and in this, yet again, the work of the rapporteur, Mr Jové Peres, deserves to be praised for not over-emphasising across-the-board aspects, although these were important. In this matter, the recovery we all want and are aiming for cannot rest on a single idea – the reduction, if not the disappearance of the fishing sector – because fishing is carried out by real people, human beings, family men, and for this reason alone we need to seek and find a balance between the consequences of limitation and means of conservation. One example would be the mechanism of temporary cessation of activity, restriction of fishing days, etc. Commissioner, a Galician newspaper this morning contained the following: ‘the European Fisheries Commissioner says that cutting off aid would mitigate job losses. The removal of state aid for the modernisation of boats will be positive, as it will contribute to maintaining jobs on-board boats’. In my opinion, given that the boat is not just the centre of work, but also the professional fisherman’s home, the brave workers fully deserve an improvement in their working and living conditions. Their dignity requires it and society, in particular the fisheries sector, has requested and expects this. . – Mr President, it should not surprise anyone, particularly if they have any legal training, that the control of the application of Community law should fall to the Committee on Legal Affairs. That is obvious. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Koukiadis on his kindness – and I would go as far as to say his wisdom – in including the conclusions of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in his report. I am speaking as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment, and this suits me because I would like to pose the question out loud, before you all, of what kind of Europe it is we want to build. In 1996 in Turin, the French President, Mr Chirac, said that if Europe only makes progress along the economic route, the commercial route, it would be a failure. He said that we had to deal with the situation of the Europeans, that we had to revive the idea of the European, and that that would herald the road to success. Now that my country, Spain, is beginning to prepare for the Presidency, the competent authorities, the President, Mr Aznar, and the Ministers, talk every day about the idea of creating more Europe. What does more Europe mean? Probably realising the contents of our Charter of Fundamental Rights, that is to say, a Europe which is concerned about Europeans. That is why this report is important and essential, and I would like to highlight certain points in it. Firstly, something that should be of concern to all of us – in the Commission and in the Council – and that is the transposition of directives, because it is precisely in the social sphere that a very low percentage of directives is transposed when compared to other fields or to transposition in general. Secondly, there are certain especially sensitive subjects; our professions always accompany us and, as a works inspector, I am enormously concerned that in the fields of safety and health at work, directives are not transposed more quickly. Thirdly, equality. I believe that we must demand from the Commission more power to impose fines, which would have sufficient coercive effect, greater inclination to coordinate the different governments of the Member States, in order to achieve that greater coordination and, in summary, greater intensity in its activities, so that the principles enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights might become reality. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur. I would like to begin by saying that retirement, while still being a technical/legal and economic/actuarial issue, has become an issue of the greatest media interest and has won the status as a central issue within policy in general, and within social policy in particular. Back in 1950, the age of sixty was regarded as the threshold of old age; the age of 65 implied retirement from active working life, and not to have a will drawn up by the age of seventy would unquestionably have been considered recklessly irresponsible. We can conclude from this that the population of our current society, which has doubled by the end of the twentieth century and into the twenty-first, includes many people of a very advanced age, who until recently were classified as ‘old people’, and those older people have a strong social image, they are real, they have active lives and have good reason to hope to continue living. Within this context, a long-term perspective is necessary in the field of pensions and, despite the fact that dealing with pensions and pension policy are essentially the responsibility of the Member States, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the European contribution appears to be necessary, both in the exchange of best practices and in increasing consensus, and in the common regulation of certain aspects necessary in order to ensure the possibility of transferring pension rights of all types and their viability. Pension systems through public schemes linked to income – first pillar – through private professional schemes – second pillar – and individual retirement pension funds – third pillar – must offer Europeans the opportunities to maintain their standard of living following retirement. A system which prevents or hinders the free movement of people must therefore be excluded, as must the European citizens’ fear of ageing or physical or psychological deterioration. In the face of the weight of the third pillar, fear must be alleviated and business interests excluded. The viability of the pension system must be guaranteed, and it must respond to changes in society and in the ways in which production is organised: the greater presence of women, an older active population and atypical forms of contract. . –  Madam President, I would like to refer briefly to the earlier debate simply to ask the Commissioner to promote all these possible measures to help Galicia as much as you can, and try to speed them up, because those suffering from the damage in Galicia have identity cards and human faces; they are the fishermen, their neighbours, small businessmen, etc. It is true that whoever causes damage should pay for it, and here those responsible are hiding behind a legal web, under the umbrella of an anonymous public limited company, and here I mean ‘anonymous’ in the literal sense of the word. Perhaps, Commissioner, it would be a good idea to promote measures for transparency, clarity and flexibility as well within the scope of maritime trading legislation. I shall now move on to the EU/Senegal Fisheries Agreement, to say that we should set out fisheries possibilities in Senegalese waters and the financial contribution. I believe that the conclusion of a new protocol on fisheries relations between Senegal and the European Union – which is of particular importance following the failed agreement with Morocco – should be welcomed. As you said, the impact of the protocol on fish populations in Senegalese waters is minimal, given that the fisheries activities of the European Union only represent between 1.7% and 3% of total catches in the area. Furthermore, fishing possibilities for EU vessels have been decreased on sensitive stocks and technical measures including a two-month biological rest period have been agreed to give more protection to fish stocks and to minimise the risk of competition with the artisanal fleet. I do not want to say too much because a great deal of data already appears in the report. Allow me, however, to say that with regard to demersal species, the opportunities for pelagic fishing have vanished and the opportunities for tuna fishing have remained at the same level. Allow me to say also that financial compensation from the EU will increase from EUR 12 million to EUR 16 million annually and of these EUR 16 million, EUR 3 million will be allocated to specific measures: developing local industry and the informal commitment – what a pity this is not included in the agreement – by the Senegalese authorities to pass on 50% of total compensation to the sector, which is important because the Senegalese economy is heavily dependent on fishing and one in six Senegalese nationals of working age works in this sector. I would also highlight that the biological rest period is obligatory unlike the simple provisions of the previous agreement, and states that the aim of prohibiting deep-sea fishing is to foster the conservation of vulnerable species and promote the small fishing sector and defend the sustainability of fishing in Senegal. All of which, like the setting of lower by-catch rates and larger mesh sizes, demonstrates the importance of this. It is equally important to ensure an increased number of Senegalese seamen on board EU vessels. I would like, Commissioner, to emphasise a reference to Amendment No 3, which has a clear social content – I am a member of the Committee on Social Affairs – and, overall, sets out similar working conditions, rights and freedoms for all seamen on board EU vessels, whether or not they are EU seamen. The European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights therefore does not draw any distinctions and its first article states that human dignity is inviolable. In conclusion, this seems to be a good agreement: an achievable agreement is always the best one. The agreement is clearly a meeting of wills, and often – almost always - both parties must make concessions in order to reach the agreement. The Members of this Parliament are not in the habit of offering congratulations, but I believe this is a good agreement and we should congratulate the Commission. – Mr President, I would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work, although we do not have a definition of harassment, perhaps because harassment takes many forms and is difficult to define. I would like to express my solidarity with, and sympathy for, Mrs Lynne, who has just told us of a new form of harassment. By way of analysis, an acceptable definition seems to me to be that of the Irish working group for the prevention of harassment, which defines it as direct or indirect, inappropriate and repeated behaviour of a verbal, physical or other nature, directed by one or more persons against a third party or parties in the workplace and/or in the execution of their work, which may justifiably be considered to violate an individual’s right to dignity at work. And, of course, an isolated incident of behaviour such as that described in the definition may constitute an affront to dignity at work, but an individual and isolated incident would not be considered harassment. We can accept this definition or any other. The fact is that up to 12 million people in the European Union claim to have been morally harassed over the last twelve months, women appear to be victims of harassment to a greater extent than men and certain sectors of activity seem to be particularly affected. Harassment has repercussions for the economy of the company, leads to absenteeism, inefficiency and low productivity. For society, harassment may lead to medical and psychological costs, sick leave, early retirement, etc. Above all it affects the worker and presents risks which add to problems of physical violence and ergonomic issues. Furthermore, there remains much to do in order to eliminate risks to health, both of a physical and chemical origin. Above all, moral harassment, pestering – which is one possible name for it – seems to me incompatible with Article 1 of the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights: ‘Human dignity is inviolable. It must be respected and protected’. Harassment therefore constitutes a risk to health but above all an attack on the person’s dignity. I therefore welcome this initiative aimed at preventing harassment in the workplace and at preventing workers suffering the pain of helplessness. – Mr President, I have taken the floor in order to reaffirm the need for the modernisation of social protection, which is much more then simply one more step in the construction of Europe. This message is contained in the excellent report by Mr Andersson. Europe, the European Union, although it is very strong in economic and political terms, will remain shaky, weak and limited, perhaps inadequate, if we are not able to strengthen it from a social point of view. I believe that the latter means the possibility of employment for those who require it, but also decisive action in support of the socially disadvantaged. Bearing in mind that everybody has the right to social protection and a minimum guaranteed social income, I believe that we must not forget about those people who were not born in the European Union. Let us not forget that, in 1999, 717,000 people came here to compensate for our low birth rate. In social terms, it is therefore absolutely essential that we have an immigration policy with a social conscience, as President Gutierres recently stated in Spain. We must be very aware of the situation of those people whose prospects of finding work are threatened or reduced by economic changes, mergers, take-overs, new technologies etc. What is required here is a training policy to qualify and prepare people for new jobs, for those who already have a job and for those who need a second opportunity, because sometimes, as the title of the film states, the postman always rings twice. In my humble opinion, it is the responsibility of all European, national and regional governments to ensure that he rings on more than one occasion. It seems to me, Commissioner, that the Commission has the responsibility to promote and coordinate these opportunities. Madam President, please allow me firstly, as a Spaniard, to thank all the honourable Members who have expressed their solidarity. Allow me also to express my deepest disdain for this vermin in human form and above all affection and solidarity with the families suffering today; solidarity and affection in their pain and suffering. As Commissioner Solbes said, we must carry on, although it is not easy. We are debating the Commission’s proposal to update Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 with regard to specific benefits and non-contributory payments. The proposal is mainly aimed at incorporating the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, specifying the special and non-contributory nature of certain benefits, and also reflects the changes which have taken place in the different national legislations. I believe that the crux of the debate is whether or not to include in Annex IIa the benefits laid down in national legislations and the consequences of that inclusion in the said annex, in other words, their non-exportability or, where relevant, their exportability. Of the various amendments presented, I agree with Nos 1, 2 and 3, both because of the characteristics or nature of the benefits in question, or because of the conditions for receiving them, or the difficulty or impossibility of controlling them. Naturally, Amendments Nos 4, 5, 7 and 8, which relate to benefits whose exportable nature was mentioned a while ago, are dealing with benefits which sometimes have equivalents in the Member States, suited, furthermore, to living conditions. In any event, I believe this should be studied. I cannot agree with Amendments Nos 9 to 12; firstly because they involve family benefits in all cases. The general criterion of the regulation is that family benefits are exported; anything else would be discrimination, and would hinder the free movement of persons, and within the context of that free movement, would prevent families from travelling with their rucksacks of social protection on their backs. Finally, Madam President, I would like to draw attention to making present or future health care in certain Member States conditional upon payment of certain contributions from pensions. Naturally I am referring to the new paragraph 1 of Article 33 of the Regulation. This means that the incomes of a very significant number of pensioners would be reduced. In the case of Spaniards residing in other Member States, their pensions would be reduced while, if they lived in Spain, they would receive 100% of them, since health care is a right which we could describe as automatic. We would therefore be faced with a clear case of discrimination and hindering of the free movement of persons. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join in warmly congratulating the rapporteur on the quality of her report. If we were to analyse the changes in employment figures in the various economic sectors, we would soon see a rapid and significant reduction in the number of people carrying out their activities in the agricultural sector, a different trend towards job losses in the industrial sector and, in contrast, a clear positive increase in the numbers of people working in the services sector. Perhaps, amongst other things, as a result of the skill and the technical, professional and intellectual capacity of the people who carry out their activity in the services sector. Furthermore, the range of services is extremely broad, from transport to education, from commerce to hotels and catering, from tourism to leisure activities and, furthermore, the services are greatly affected by demographic changes in society. Activities relating to care of the elderly, or those stemming from the need to reconcile professional and family life are clear examples. At the same time, this sector creates the conditions for the others, including agriculture and, also in the knowledge and information-based economy, the skill of the service provider generates new jobs. It is necessary to stress the possibilities arising from the whole, from cooperation between the different administrations, since local administration – the closest – has the best knowledge of the needs of potential job seekers and the means to satisfy them. Furthermore, I believe it appropriate to ‘horizontalise’ policies such as health and safety at work, equality for women and non-discrimination, as laid down in Articles 20 and 21 of our Charter of Fundamental Rights. Mr President, we must not forget ongoing training, since, as the rapporteur says, a services sector with low salaries means a low level of quality, qualifications and productivity, and that means a reduction in the economy’s capacity to generate innovation, sustainable wealth and social cohesion. Madam President, Commissioner, I too would like to congratulate Mrs Jensen, not just on the work she has done, but on her ability and her efforts to reach consensus between all the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. The European Commission had officially launched the idea of creating a European health card at the beginning of the Spanish Presidency of the European Union, which ran from January to June 2002, at the informal meeting of Employment and Social Policy Ministers, held in Burgos on 18 and 19 January 2002. That proposal was supported by the then Spanish Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, President-in-Office of the Council of Employment and Social Policy Ministers, Mr Juan Carlos Aparicio Pérez, who is incidentally now the Mayor of that beautiful Castilian city. Then, the Barcelona Council of March 2002 decided to create a European Health Insurance Card, a card which will replace the current paper forms which European citizens require in order to receive healthcare assistance in other Member States. When Community citizens move between Member States there may be, and in fact there are, inconveniences and restrictions of their intra-Community freedom of movement. The possibility – an immediate one, having heard the Commissioner – of a European health card must contribute to the elimination and removal of these difficulties and furthermore is going to make it easier for Community Europeans to exercise their rights. The situation was very different initially, since we were working on the basis of differing situations in each of the Member States. Nevertheless, the advantages of this European health card are obvious. For my country, which receives more than 40 million European citizens per year and in which furthermore many Community citizens take up residence, it is very important. The inhabitants of highly regionalised countries will also have special advantages. The card for all Community Europeans is going to simplify the procedures currently necessary in order to receive assistance in the country of temporary stay, also guaranteeing that the bodies funding that assistance are reimbursed for their expenses by the country of origin of the beneficiary-user. I therefore believe that the advantages, amongst others, are the correct application of Community coordination in the field of health care; creating confidence amongst the European citizens with regard to their healthcare when they move within Community territory; to facilitate the citizens’ exercise of their right to healthcare assistance by means of simplifying the documentation required, concentrating it in a simple card, in a single card to ensure healthcare assistance, with the integrated use of cards and terminals; and finally, the provision of the replacement procedure in exceptional cases, by which I mean the loss or theft of the card. With this card, which in principle is going to replace the current E111 form, used for short stays, as the Commissioner said, we will have another piece of Europe in our pockets to add to the euro. Quite simply, to return to the Spanish Presidency and its slogan, this card will provide us with ‘more Europe’. In any event, I believe that ‘more Europe’ means a closer Europe, closer to the European citizens, which the citizens will have a better image of, and, undoubtedly – and I will end here, Madam President – a further step in European construction as our precursors would have said. – Mr. President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Smet on her excellent work. The scoreboard on the application of the Social Agenda must allow the progress made in terms of the application of that Agenda to be monitored, but it must also act as a rapid alarm call when there are delays in the implementation of the measures announced. I believe that the rapporteur has been able to harmonise both aspects in her report. Furthermore, in its application, the Social Agenda should not, in my humble opinion, be treated as an unaltered or unalterable programme. Designed by people for people, I see it as an evolving programme which demands subsequent adjustments, as the mid-term assessment of the progress achieved, to be carried out in 2003, will demonstrate. Commissioner, much has been done in terms of the development of the European social model, but I would venture to say that there remains much to be done, and in different fields. Sex equality policy, measures to combat social exclusion and poverty, policies on the integrating of disabled people socially and taking advantage of the capacities they do have, and opting for life-long learning and training and, with it, the need to adapt to the new forms of work and the reconciliation of work with family life. In any event, there is a demand which I would like to highlight and draw the Commission’s attention to. I am referring to the new forms of work, with the new risks inherent in them and therefore the concern about the forms of participation in productive processes by means of productive externalisation or decentralisation – subcontracting, the presence of freelancers, independent workers – in the field of the risks of the contracting company, etc. Hence the need for the application of measures aimed at preventing risk – inherent in all forms of work, but sometimes imperceptible and blurred in the context of these new forms of production – being converted into work accidents. I believe that these measures would be viable for all workers, employers and society. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to congratulate Mr Schmid on his work and on his attitude in including the myriad amendments tabled, which merely aimed to strengthen and extend the ideas regarding the local dimension of employment and its possibilities. It is true that all work can be considered local, and although the European Employment Strategy has focused on the efforts made at national and European level, it is increasingly accepted that the objective of full employment cannot be achieved without greater involvement and participation at the levels closest to the job-seeker, in other words, at regional or local level, both from the point of view of the job and from that of the workers. In considering the labour market as a vertical structure from the European, national, regional and local points of view, nobody doubts the role of the local market – perhaps, quantitatively, one-third of total employment – and this local dimension takes on particular significance in rural and peripheral areas. In this regard, it can and should act as a tool to keep people in certain areas and can play – and I believe it must play – an important role with regard to the most socially vulnerable groups. Many different types of direct local action for employment, with an immediate impact, are also possible, naturally with the support of the European programmes. In any event, municipal or local action can open the doors to work in the fight against gender discrimination, as emphasised by Mrs Bastos, or in the fight against social exclusion. Perhaps all that is needed may be to convince a company – sometimes the largest in a city – that incorporating workers from socially disadvantaged groups into that company is just as important as sponsoring a club – perhaps a football club, since the World Cup has just ended – and also convincing it that this attitude is probably more sensitive and, at least locally, also more profitable, from the point of view of advertising and promotion. Furthermore, where one or a few companies dominate the labour market in a given sector or area, they have the opportunity to diversify and provide greater guarantees for society as a whole. Social agents, who need to be convinced, also have an important role to play. I do not want to end without referring to the importance of the link between local employment initiatives and health and safety at work. Good communication between the local authorities and other authorities can also be a weapon in the battle to lower the accident rate. – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the recent tragedy involving the , I believe that these are worrying times for both the Galician fishermen, who are awaiting the Commission’s response, and who do not want these terrible events to happen again anywhere, and for all good people who defend the environment and sustainable development. I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Souchet and Mr Busk on the quality of their reports; and with regard to the report which in the end the chairman of the committee has taken charge of, I will comment on recital K and Amendment No 23. The area reserved for traditional fishing within a band of 6 miles – which was subsequently increased to 12 and extended to all Member States – was extended, for the last time, within the framework of the reform of the common fisheries policy of 1992, for a period of ten years. We have therefore been in a provisional situation for thirty years. It appears that the aim was to allow for a progressive adaptation of the small-scale coastal fleet. And if they have not carried it out, I do not know when they are going to do so. The European Commission’s proposal on the timetable for the reform of the common fisheries policy advocates permanently maintaining the prohibition of fishing within 12 miles – a proposal, by the way, whose legal validity has been called into question. I believe that, at a time when we are facing enlargement and we have a Convention under way, paradoxically, this proposal would mark the beginning of a period of renationalisation of Community waters contrary to the principle of equal access for fishing vessels to all European Union stocks, which would also involve the additional risk of a possible future increase of this restricted area if it is adopted as a permanent exception. Madam President, the Europeans in general and the people who live from the sea, in particular, will not understand why the waters are not communitarised, why we have this restriction – an exception to the principle of free access – why this sector is not being communitarised while the others are. Therefore, from a strictly legal point of view, the establishment of a permanent exception should be ruled out forever. I would like to encourage Members to vote against Recital K and Amendment No 23, which, in my humble opinion, are contrary to Community law and European common sense. –  Mr President, Commissioner, as well as thanking Mrs Thorning-Schmidt for her work on this report, I would like to make one observation. When we see, for example, someone working with a pneumatic drill on the street, or a tractor driver sitting behind the steering wheel on a farm, these people – and I am not speaking as an expert in these matters – are probably not aware that they are facing a risk that could have serious consequences to their health. For this reason I believe that today is a day to celebrate because, despite the fact that nine years have passed – as Mrs Thorning-Schmidt said – this first directive of the four planned in the proposal presented by the Commission in 1992 has come to fruition. From this day forth, therefore, we shall be able to count on a series of protective measures to try to prevent these risks I was referring to from turning into a disaster. Throughout this time, the Group of the Europe People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has maintained an attitude that has, more than anything, sought to encourage constructive work and a spirit of dialogue with all of the interested parties, with the aim of achieving better applicability of the provisions of the directive and, as a consequence of this, increased effectiveness of workers’ protection methods. For this reason we are particularly delighted that the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee on 8 April has taken into account the difficulties in applying this directive encountered by a large number of, mainly small, companies, and also by many economic sectors in the search for a compromise on limit values and on the implementation deadline for the requirements imposed by the new directive on companies. Technically, the great reduction in the limit value for daily exposure to vibrations, as well as the setting of the daily exposure values, has allowed us to reach this agreement. I feel we have to welcome the fact that the Member States can have a longer period of time, until 2010, to apply the precautionary measures, as well as special consideration for the agricultural and forestry sectors, which in many Member States include a collection of small and very small companies, which have longer still to implement the measures, until 2014. To sum up, I think that the desire to make improvements, an observation of reality and common sense are good examples and good formulae to work on in the hope that these new directives on the aforementioned risks and others that are still being studied can soon be approved. I would like to finish, therefore, by congratulating the rapporteur, the Commission, Parliament, the Council, and above all, all the workers affected, because from today they will have an instrument in defence of their health. –  Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Thorning-Schmidt on her excellent work and, having said this, I would like to remind you that Article 31(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states that every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity. This is a wide-ranging declaration, within the chapter on solidarity, which includes not only the measures taken against obvious risks, such as the risk of falling or risks faced when dealing with abrasive materials, but also those preventative measures used against risks that could go undetected by the majority of those who are not experts in this field. These are the risks that those who work in mines, in construction and in the field of transport have to face on a daily basis, which, according to those who study them, affect up to 24% of European workers. These risks originate from two different types of vibration: Hand-arm vibration, which is the cause of whitefinger, impaired feeling and grip, amongst other problems, or Whole-body vibration, which is the cause of back problems, lumbar pains and slipped discs. It is worth remembering, Commissioner, that these measures should not be limited to including only physical causes, such as vibrations, but should also take account of electromagnetic fields, noise and waves and optical radiation, for example, and also bear in mind the transitional period needed to make the required adjustments arising from the adoption of these measures. I am convinced that all employers and workers have a common goal, which is the improvement of their workspace and environment, so that the place in which they work is suitable. A transitional period will be needed so that equipment can be replaced and procedures can be improved and adapted. Differences relating to technological development and type of activity, such as agriculture, will have to be taken into account, with a conviction that ‘no-risk’ does not exist and that the quest for safety is the responsibility of all those involved: workers, be they self-employed or employed, employers or local, regional or national administrations. Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur. We live in a world undergoing a process of ageing. At first glance, this sentence may seem negative, but it also has a positive side, which is that people’s lives are getting longer. Both aspects should be considered objectively. Naturally, the right of elderly people to lead a life of dignity and independence and to participate in social and cultural life is objective, and is provided for in Article 25 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Incidentally, this article falls within the framework of the second chapter, entitled ‘Equality’ – perhaps as an extension or a specification of the principle of equality: ‘Everyone is equal before the law’, as stated in Article 20 and, at the same time, of the prohibition of all discrimination, including discrimination on the grounds of age, as stated in Article 21 – and not within the fourth chapter of the Charter, entitled ‘Solidarity’, as one would logically assume, though this fourth chapter does include the right to preventive health care and to benefit from medical treatment under the conditions established by national legislations and practices. Naturally, the three great objectives we need to achieve are: universal accessibility regardless of the economic situation of each person, high-quality health care and the long-term sustainability of health care systems. In a Europe whose principles and objectives include the free movement of persons, national strategies must include promoting modernisation and coordination, both in order to prevent any possible social exclusion, and in order to promote our going back to a society of experience, wisdom and knowledge of the elderly. Worthy of additional consideration are very old people, as a sector of this demographic group is described the report; since their care is going to require a large workforce, it is going to be a source of employment which, in any event, is going to require the professionals of this sector, the services, training and specialist care sector. I would like to end by talking about the need to become aware of the problems. Increasing awareness within society as a whole often prevents problems from arising in the future. A typical example of this is the rules on building or the removal of architectural boundaries. – Mr President, Commissioner, the Charter of Fundamental Rights has enabled us to take a great step towards the reconstruction of a Europe of the citizens; this is what Mr Méndez de Vigo likes to tell us; this is what we have heard on many occasions from Professor Rodríguez Bereijo, the representative named by the Head of the Spanish Government, Mr José María Aznar, for the convention drafting the Charter. And I believe that this is to the liking of the Europeans. To build, through this long process, a social Europe seems to me to be a great challenge and a great opportunity, which must be taken advantage of. But this construction is taking place at a specific moment, in particular economic, social and political circumstances. The Lisbon Summit decided to liberalise the telecommunications, gas, electricity and transport markets. We are experiencing a process of general globalisation and a change in the concept of industrial society and the labour market. We may ask ourselves: and what about the human factor? Both Nice and the social agenda agreed at that meeting highlight the need to count on the workers in management changes and combine the security and flexibility of economic growth with labour relations and the consequences for the social environment. And that is why, within the globalising dimension, we cannot ignore the importance of certain companies in certain regions and areas, for example the outlying regions, such as Galicia, where I come from myself, where they are the only or the main source of employment and where the threat of globalisation without guarantees would make families worried and nervous. Secondly, economic competitiveness and a healthy society must not be contradictory terms but rather harmonious ones. Thirdly, industrial restructuring, to use the expression in a broad sense, which is perhaps acceptable and inevitable from an economic point of view, cannot ignore the social consequences of that restructuring, which must be prepared for, since the objective of Community economic policies and measures must be to achieve a high level of employment. Fourthly and lastly, national Community aid, tax incentives etc. should be conditional upon long-term temporary binding commitments in the field of employment and local and regional development. These four points are only some of the considerations that the Commission and the Council must take into account in the face of the phenomenon of industrial restructuring. Of course, the participation of the works committees, the representatives of the workers, is expected. Mr President, globalisation reduces economic distances. We must commit ourselves to preventing it from increasing social differences. – Mr President, allow me to begin by congratulating Mrs Avilés Perea on her excellent report. My congratulations are sincere because she has been able to deal in a full and balanced way with the consequences which globalisation have had on the world of immigration, specifically for women and in particular for women from the southern region of the Mediterranean. I believe that the rapporteur has sought to produce a balanced text, which is necessary and possible, which reflects the differing views and sensibilities, while avoiding extremist and dogmatic positions, and a text which reflects the diverse opinions and the seriousness of the situation. Of course, globalisation is not a panacea for all evils. Globalisation does not necessarily mean well-being and wealth and, in many cases, it is or could be a source of inequality and greater poverty. The Treaty of Amsterdam established for the first time the Union’s competence in the field of immigration and asylum, and the Tampere European Council agreed that the issues of asylum and immigration, which are different but closely related, make a European Union common policy necessary. This means that we need to evaluate present and future migratory flows in all their categories: humanitarian reasons, family reunification and economic reasons, as the rapporteur already mentioned, and demographic changes, the situation of the labour market and of the immigrants’ countries of origin. In political terms, I believe that we must choose between continuing to hold the view that the Union can continue to resist migratory pressures or accepting that immigration is going to continue and must be adequately regulated, working together to maximise the positive effects of immigration, both for the Union and for the immigrants themselves and for their countries of origin. The situation is clearly more critical in the case of female migrants. They are more vulnerable to abusive practices. We must, therefore, accept any initiative which may make us reflect on this issue. Such matters include the demographic structure of each country of the Union as a whole, demographic development, the origin of existing immigrants in the European Union, jobs which they carry out in the place of others – in other words, domestic work done by immigrants allows women from the receiving country to work outside the home – marginalisation, prostitution and living and working conditions. All of this must be considered within a balanced framework of rights and obligations for all nationals of third countries resident in the Union. I therefore believe – and I appeal to the generosity required by the seriousness and the exacting nature of the issue – that it would be good to remove concepts such as ‘Euro-Mediterranean citizenship’, which I believe create confusion and in my view are exclusive. The Mediterranean, the birthplace of civilisations and culture, must be a factor for integration and not for exclusion. I therefore believe that we must support action to integrate women and to provide them with dignity, and we must not forget that in many countries they are still not even considered to be citizens. A broad consensus will no doubt give our demands and our actions more force. – Mr President, I feel obliged, and I would like to do so courteously, to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Skinner, on his sensitivity, his excellent report and his willingness to accept the proposals – which I believe are well put together – of the Group on whose behalf I have the honour of speaking. All of this means that we have a text which enjoys broad consensus, and not only amongst the two main Groups, since this consensus has been forged through constant communication with social operators, entrepreneurs and workers, via the trade unions. I believe that consensus is necessary in a field in which the safety, health, integrity and the very lives of workers are at stake. Very recently I was going for a walk around my town, Vigo, in Galicia, in the north west of Spain, when I happened to see a large works sign. The works involved the renovation of an old square in the town’s historic quarter, and the sign said: “This company respects the law. It uses safety equipment and devices. If you are not familiar with them, do not enter the site. Inform us of any situation of risk. Please help us to fulfil the legal obligations for protecting the safety and health of workers”. I mention the contents of this works sign and the advice, legal requirements for third parties and those with an interest in the works, because I believe that it represents a summary of the requirements of a good policy on health at work. A good policy on health at work must begin by being preventive and the idea of prevention must to a large extent include awareness, not only on the part of workers and employers, but also on the part of society as a whole. Unfortunately, every day we hear news of accidents at work. We know very well there is no such thing as zero risk, but we are also aware that society must not cease in its efforts to prevent risk being turned into accidents. When an accident happens, the responsibility may perhaps fall to the employer, because they have still not been convinced that money spent on safety is an investment. Or perhaps it may fall to the worker, because they ignore the risks, or because of a lack of caution, or because adequate measures or precautions have not been taken, mainly in activities such as construction, in which the temporary nature of works and of the sector itself – a bridging sector, between primary activity, mainly agricultural, and the industrial and service sectors – require even more precautionary measures. Or it may perhaps fall to the administration itself through the insufficiency, and therefore ineffectiveness, of the inspection, advisory and control services responsible for informing, advising and, where necessary, penalising non-compliance with the employment legislation. Health and safety at work, especially where the risk is very high, is the responsibility of society and of all the sectors concerned, and the whole of society must assume its fair share of responsibility and commitment. The employer should consider money spent on safety at work as an investment. The worker should take full precautions, demanding and arguing for the use of preventive and protective mechanisms, as well as the good practices of companies. States and governments should amend the measures for the promotion of preventive actions, for the inspection of the measures to prevent accidents, and also for the replacement of the administrative and political methods for combating accidents at work. The old model of penalties, which has shown itself to be insufficient and ineffective, should be replaced with a method providing stimulus and incentive, by intensifying action in all companies or activities with the highest number of accidents, and also by offering benefits and advantages to companies with the lowest number of accidents and the highest spending on prevention and awareness. Furthermore, the Commission and the Council should set minimum conditions which may seem strict to some, but which will allow working conditions to be improved and the health and safety of workers to be protected, harmonising legislation in a market operating with the free movement of workers. In this way, European citizens will see Europe as being closer to them, a Europe that addresses their problems, concerns and interests. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, we often hear it said by our neighbours, at all levels of expertise or debate, that we live in a globalised world. However, it is not so common to hear people speak of what Europe’s role should be in this context of the information society, globalisation and technology. It seems to me, Mr President, that this is probably the case because we Europeans see Europe as somewhat removed from our more immediate concerns and interests. The prime concern of the European citizens, after health, is probably employment. Within this concern, employment is linked to competitiveness. All of this will lead us to the need to define the role of Europe in the world economy, of Europe as a competitive platform – and I stress ‘competitive’ – opening the way to new and better jobs, higher quality jobs from the point of view, of course, of guaranteeing social cohesion. Social risks, social breakdown, unemployment, social exclusion, imbalances in the social security systems, are unavoidable challenges presented by globalisation, technological change and an ageing population. We therefore have to re-establish conditions of full employment, employment adapted to the society which is taking shape, which we are all building. This requires the creation of a dynamic of growth which guarantees, for the whole of the European Union, an average annual rate of growth of 3% at least. I therefore think it is necessary to stimulate a culture of dynamism and business initiative and a strengthening of social cohesion. All of this is absolutely essential. We need technological change and institutional reform. While it is necessary to learn more quickly from good practices, it is also necessary to create suitable new practices and be innovative in the field of political methodology. Of course, today’s Europe has organised institutional procedures for developing these policies, to create an economy, and above all a society, based on innovation and knowledge, by means of a European policy on the information and knowledge-based society, the construction of an educational society on a European scale and the development of a European area of science and technology open to the world. Finally, Mr President, we have to guarantee a combination of policies which promote growth and employment, guarantee macroeconomic security and the consolidation of the euro; which promote growth and the transition towards a society and economy of innovation and knowledge. Through policies and structural reform, at the service of the citizens, we will create a Europe which is closer to us and, of course, a Europe which is stronger. – Mr President, I am taking the floor to express my opinion, drawn from my experience of municipal administration, that the URBAN projects should, or rather must, have a threefold purpose: firstly, to promote the restoration of infrastructure and historic, old and perhaps dilapidated areas of cities. Secondly, to promote and stimulate economic activity and social life within these historic centres, within these old quarters of our cities. There is little point in having streets which are now wonderfully lit, with new pavements, with newly paved road surfaces, all whitewashed and beautiful, if we are not able to fill them with activity and, therefore, employment. I would like to make it clear that it is not just a question of finance or aid to the different social operators, but rather also of selecting those projects which are aimed at employment, or to put it another way, projects which will tend to favour the creation and promotion of jobs. Thirdly – and perhaps this should be the first objective – the projects should principally be aimed at the complete rehabilitation of people and families, because man is not made for the law, but rather law is made for man. These areas of our cities are often home to single-parent families, elderly people who receive a pension and no longer carry out productive activity, and families facing difficulties; sometimes they are families which have broken down and which are excluded from mainstream society. These people live in areas which should benefit from these projects. If we have success in this threefold sense, I believe that these families, these people, these European citizens, will believe more in Europe, and this seems to me to be very important because, ultimately, the cities will increasingly come to play a leading role in European life. . Mr President, Commissioner – whom I welcome – ladies and gentlemen, in 1994 the European Parliament approved at first reading the Commission’s proposal on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents. The differing natures of the four physical agents – noise, vibration, optical radiation and electromagnetic fields – led to a new approach on the part of the Council in 1999, which advocated specific directives. Following the directives on vibration and noise, today we are examining the Directive on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to electromagnetic fields. The proposal for a directive falls under the heading of measures to improve the working environment because, according to Article 31 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights under the heading ‘Fair and just working conditions’, every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity. To start with, we must make it clear that the new Directive is extremely careful about its potential socio-economic impact, since it does not impose new obligations which were not already contained in the framework directive; it simply sets out their specific details. The directive only deals with short- and medium-term adverse effects and not long-term adverse effects because of the lack of solid scientific data. It does not deal with risks involving contact with live conductors. Protection in this case is contained in the framework directive. The proposal’s scope does not provide for exceptions, because that would represent discrimination, within the meaning of Article 13 of the EC Treaty and Article 20 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Furthermore, this is a health and safety directive, which is intended to eliminate risks at origin, although a specific directive – 93/42/EEC, for example – obliges the manufacturer to comply with essential requirements. Use may be incorrect and therefore the sources of risk may be many and varied. In order to understand the preventive content, we must take account of two concepts. Firstly, the exposure limit value above which no one is permitted to work. Secondly, the action value which leads to an action in accordance with the terms laid down in the proposal. This Parliament’s contributions mainly focus on the obligations for employers in terms of evaluating and measuring the levels of the electromagnetic fields workers are exposed to, on the consultation and participation of those workers and on training and information. Another of Parliament’s contributions is to set out detailed requirements for containing and monitoring this power – Article 8 – with the aim of preventing and diagnosing as swiftly as possible any adverse effect on health due to exposure to electromagnetic fields. When exposure exceeding the limit values is detected, a medical examination is required and, in the event that any damage to health as a result of exposure is detected, the employer will be obliged to carry out a reassessment of the risks. Effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions are laid down, in accordance with national legislation – of course – in the event of infringement. If Parliament votes in favour of this report and the Council accepts Parliament’s amendments, the Directive will be the result of a form of social dialogue, of political dialogue, in this case, through the joint efforts of the PPE-DE Group and the PSE Group who, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, have understood that, by means of this Directive, we could improve working conditions for European workers. We accepted the initial proposal by Mr Crowley of the UEN Group. In my capacity as rapporteur, I would like to thank him and all my fellow Members for their contributions and, in particular, the coordinator for the Socialist Group in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Mr Stephen Hughes. Without this agreement, the Directive would not be possible. If we achieve the necessary votes tomorrow, we will have a Directive which is the result of dialogue between the majority political groups in this House aimed at improving the living conditions of workers and protecting their dignity as human beings. – Mr President, a few moments ago, when I spoke on the previous item on the agenda, I pointed out the definition of what we understood by a company and I stressed that a company, as an organisation, implies plurality and that a company consisting of a single person would not legally be classed as a company. And plurality means the obligation to regulate the role of workers throughout the organisation. I believe that Mr Menrad’s report responds magnificently to this issue and we must congratulate him on the quality of his work. The objective of the Directive is to improve the right of workers to be informed and consulted by the multinational companies or groups which operate in Europe. It is estimated that currently more than 1 100 multinationals, which employ approximately 15 million people, would be affected by this Directive and by its modification. I agree with the rapporteur when he asks for and expects the Commission to amend Directive 94/45/EC, making information and consultation rights into a means for facilitating social dialogue as a key element of social and labour relations in the companies affected. I also agree with him when he asks for the role of these participation, information and consultation bodies not only to be relevant at times of industrial transformation and crisis, but that they should be of a permanent nature in a global economy in which we see symptoms and characteristics of globalisation, and, furthermore, that the exercise of these rights be enshrined at the appropriate procedural moment. And all of this is so that workers are guaranteed that their voice will be heard, not only at times of restructuring, but whenever decisions are taken which are essential to the permanence and future of the company and of their workplaces or delegations. This is the content of the amendments I have presented and which the rapporteur has been kind enough to incorporate. Every day we hear news of essential social importance which shocks us: all the delegations of a company are being closed in one or various countries; the company is studying a massive reduction in jobs; a merger is announced and the workers are wondering what will happen and how many will be fired or sent home, and these decisions are often taken for stock exchange reasons – to improve share prices – rather than for fundamental reasons. Communication after the decision serves little purpose in these cases. The company is an organisation, sometimes a community, with somewhat conflicting interests. I would like to stress that the content of these rights must also refer to training, to ongoing learning, to health and to safety, to equality of opportunity, to the environment, to the incorporation of young people into the workplace. All of this will make the company into a better-reconciled community, with less conflict. This will increase productivity and increase employment, and will improve living conditions, thereby leading to a better Europe. Mr President, while it is difficult to reach agreement amongst all the States, in this case it is even more so, because I do not believe we even agree – and I say this so that we may reflect on it – on the definition of harassment. Essentially, we can say that amongst the basic elements of this conduct appear the intention to do harm – whether by an employer, by managers or by work colleagues – the causing of harm within the sphere of the most essential personal rights and its complex, continued, predetermined and systematic nature. True harassment means hostile conduct against the personal dignity of the victim, insults, gibes, mockery, criticism, ridicule; these are hostile forms of conduct against their professionalism, which are manifested in monotonous, unnecessary, denigrating, abusive and disproportionate tasks. From time to time, we see in the media – and not just the sensationalist media – situations of this type, situations which, furthermore, occur directly or indirectly, that is to say, the creation of situations of ambiguity, the over-emphasis of errors and underplaying of achievements. These are situations that sometimes take the form of an externalised conflict and that on other occasions create or maintain a latent conflict, with repercussions for the person psychologically harassed, their family and their friends. The existence of these situations is always difficult to prove or demonstrate, and often difficult to classify from a legal point of view or as an administrative offence. Article 31(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights lays down that ‘Every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity’, and, according to Article 1, ‘Human dignity is inviolable. It must be respected and protected’. Commissioner, I believe that a great deal has been done during this legislature in the field of health and safety in the workplace, but the situation I have described, fortunately or otherwise, warrants our getting to work, because, just as on other occasions we have referred to the protection of dignity and the right to health and safety, in this case we must clearly confront the need to protect human dignity. – Mr President, Commissioner, I think we can say that none of us would like to continue to hear that every year in the European Union 500 000 falls from height are recorded, out of which 300 000 result in sick leave of more than 3 days, 4 000 involve serious injuries and 1 000 are fatal. Nor would we like to have to repeat that these accidents take place mainly in work carried out on scaffolding, platforms and high places. I do not wish to refer to issues that should be dealt with by the rapporteur, whom I must congratulate, even though he is not here, not only on his work, but also on the sensitivity that he has shown on these issues affecting workers, who often lack training and preparation. We should not forget that construction is a bridging sector, which enables workers to move from the agricultural sector into the service or industrial sectors. I think that the rapporteur’s sensitivity has enriched the debate as many of the amendments tabled were accepted, all of which aimed to enrich the debate and contribute to the adoption of measures to make employment safer. We know that zero risk does not exist, life is risky and work, which is the ultimate in active life, involves risks. We have a generic text, in our Charter of Fundamental Rights, which has been published but not incorporated into the treaties, which in Chapter IV, under the heading Solidarity, states that "Every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity". I would also like to say that respect for health, safety and dignity means a commitment from everyone, first of all from the workers themselves, and also from employers. Perhaps we should not establish a hierarchy, as we would obviously put the employers first, but the workers themselves must always have the necessary awareness and training to take on the risk, accept the risk and know how to respect it. No type of administration should be outside this commitment. Finally, I would like to discuss this commitment from all in the sense that, as Bertrand Russell said, in order to be happy we need three things: the courage to accept the things that we cannot change, enough determination to change the things that we can change and the wisdom to know the difference between the two. I think that, in this sense, the fight against accidents at work should be one involving constant determination and constant courage from everyone. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Schmid for his excellent work. I should also like to thank him for his effort to find common ground, even though we might not all agree on everything. The Lisbon European Council set a strategic objective for the European Union. The Union was to become the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the market. It was to be capable of sustainable economic growth and of generating more and better jobs. Social cohesion was to increase. The European Union’s commitment to jobs was consolidated and strengthened at the European Councils of Stockholm and Barcelona held in 2001 and 2002 respectively. I therefore believe that at a time when the European economy is stagnant and enlargement imminent, it is right to reiterate the ambitions stated at Lisbon and Barcelona. These ambitions should be adjusted to suit the current economic situation. Furthermore, the right of each and every citizen of the European Union to work is enshrined in Article 15 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Economic activity, jobs and favourable conditions for development cannot be isolated and dealt with as a self-contained area. I would therefore like to focus on some cross cutting ideas. I am aware of the time restrictions and only intend to offer a few suggestions, given that Mrs Regina Bastos has already emphasised the need to abide by the Stability Pact, to continue combating illegal immigration and to ensure the integration of legal immigrants when appropriate. I have in mind specific ideas, such as the commitment to more and better jobs. These should be jobs in which flexibility and stability need not threaten workers’ rights. There is also the idea of making social policies such as those on accidents in the workplace horizontal. I refer to developing a culture of prevention, and to combating such accidents. After all, this report does contain specific commitments on reducing the number of accidents in the workplace. Then there are the policies on equal opportunities. It is important to go beyond issues relating to earnings and women’s access to the labour market. As I see it, it is also essential to ensure that the demands of the workplace can be reconciled with those of family life. National parliaments, regional assemblies, national and local authorities all have a part to play in this. They are in a good position to identify needs. As Commissioner Vitorino stated, they are also well placed to help explore new employment opportunities with all the parties involved. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Commissioner on the presentation of this document, as well as Mrs van den Burg on the efforts she has made to find a balance, and I am going to comment very briefly on three specific points. Firstly, the purpose of temporary work agencies, as an instrument for flexibility in the labour market, which reconcile the aspirations of workers with the needs of companies. I believe they are going to provide greater possibilities and opportunities for employment, for accessing the labour market. Secondly, I would like to comment on the restrictions and prohibitions relating to the use of the temporary provision of workers and, from a doctrinal or theoretical point of view, I would like to say that, where there is permission for contracting workers on a temporary basis, there is no reason to prohibit the contracting of workers provided by agencies. It must only be objective and duly justified – and therefore restrictive – criteria that regulate prohibitions. Thirdly, I would like to stress the need for particularly intense action  on the health and safety protection of workers during work and on the health and safety of workers provided by temporary employment agencies. There are various reasons for this: firstly, the temporary nature of the employment itself, which seems to increase risk; secondly, the diversity of the work to be carried out in the different contracting companies; and, perhaps, thirdly, the differing methods and procedures, even for a task or post of an identical nature in different companies. I believe we should seek different arguments – for example, the voluntary requirement for non-discrimination – which could make a reference to health at work possible, as well as conditions in general and pay, in particular, without regulating them, but making this reference on the basis of support for the principle of non-discrimination. . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, point 4 of the Community health and safety strategy 2002-2006 which we have just debated calls for an extension to the scope of framework Directive 89/391/EEC – groups of workers excluded – and amongst other types of work it names that carried out by the self-employed. The recommendation I am presenting and which we are debating in the European Parliament asks that the health and safety at work protection offered to salaried workers be extended to self-employed or independent workers. Our thinking is based on the fact that workers who carry out their professional activity outside a working relationship with an employer or company are not generally protected by the Community directives relating to health and safety at work. In fact only three directives refer to them, sometimes, tangentially – specifically Council Directive 92/57/EEC on the implementation of minimum safety and health requirements at temporary or mobile construction sites – and take account of self-employed workers carrying out their activities insofar as they may constitute a potential source of risk for salaried workers at those sites as a result of their activities. In other words, risks caused by the self-employed worker which they are not protected from. Council Directive 92/29/EEC on the minimum safety and health requirements for improved medical treatment on board vessels does not fall specifically under Directive 89/391 and what I have said about Directive 92/57 also applies to it. And the most recent Directive, Directive 2001/45/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2001 amending Council Directive 89/655/EEC concerning the minimum safety and health requirements for the use of work equipment by workers at work, refers in one of its recitals to self-employed workers, pointing out that when they personally use work equipment they may put the health and safety of employed workers at risk, as if the self-employed worker were considered a risk factor not deserving of protection from the same risks, as if they were not considered truly a worker. A large majority of Member States do not provide legal health and safety protection for self-employed workers, and there is great diversity and heterogeneity between levels of protection. Measures and decisions to combat the conversion of risk into accidents have traditionally appeared linked to the concept of the employed worker, perhaps because the independent self-employed worker should take responsibility for their own health and safety, a reasoning which is insufficient and unjustified. It therefore seems that action at Community level is required, in order to ensure a minimum degree of protection for self-employed workers against professional risks, because, as well as the self-employed worker isolated in a workplace with one or more self-employed workers, the development of the employment structure, when companies are subcontracting work to micro-companies or self-employed workers, gives rise to new work safety problems: the safety of self-employed workers and that of employed or self-employed workers who work alongside them. All workers deserve protection. Self-employed workers seem to be subject to the same risks as dependent workers, but their deficient training and information may also be the cause of accidents and injuries for them and for other employed workers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a broader problem, that of the organisation of work characterised by the use of workers provided by temporary work agencies, the dividing up of the productive process, allocating it to contractors, subcontractors and self-employed workers and externalised and decentralised production methods in general. In my opinion, and I believe this is shared by everybody, the work safety protection of workers cannot depend on the legal status of each worker exposed to risks, whether they be independent, dependent or salaried. The Charter of Fundamental Rights does not make this distinction. Every worker has the right to work in conditions that respect their health, safety and dignity, according to the Charter. Where the law makes no distinction, neither must we. The procedure for application is a recommendation which must facilitate the process, the objective of which is clear; the obligatory application to independent or self-employed workers of the same rules which are applicable to salaried workers. It is clear that the culture of prevention takes on more significance here. In many cases, the self-employed workers themselves, who are the main beneficiaries, will have to invest in protection measures, and in others they will have to acquire their own information and training. Without getting into issues such as those relating to liabilities in certain types of accident, I believe that the constant and determined fight against accidents now has a new factor within the collective landscape: that offered by a culture of prevention in which the protagonists are the workers and the authorities themselves. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteurs of both these reports for their hard work. There are many types of behaviour which infringe or could infringe the rules of the common fisheries policy, and it is a fact that actions constituting infringements may be somewhat hazy both due to the lack of information by the Member States and the lack of points of reference and possibilities of comparing markers, and also to difficulties in interpreting and reading information, given the lack of data on infringements proposed, fleet size, most effective control mechanisms and resources, etc. While accepting the need for a certain amount of flexibility in interpreting rules and assessing behaviour, I believe now is the time to back reinforced cooperation between the various national inspection authorities, in order to provide information on penalties for infringements committed and also to back truly dissuasive, efficient, effective penalties, equal treatment and also to back a brave decision to prevent the entry of the products of illegal fishing into the European Union. The most serious infringement procedures concern illegal, undeclared and unregulated fishing, which is detrimental to the protection of fisheries resources and also penalises fishermen who do not commit infringements, the perpetrators of which – I mean the illegal fishermen – are undeterred by the pecuniary or monetary fine and still make a profit from their illegal activity, and are not discouraged from continuing to fish illegally. In conclusion, we must achieve an effective control, application and notification system, as stated in recital A, but this system will inevitably require of the Member States a spirit of mutual trust and accountability and an equal commitment to notifying infringements securely and effectively. Commissioner, taking the opportunity to reform the CFP to this end would make European Union actions more transparent and effective. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Mantovani on the quality of his report, which I believe is serious and well-balanced. I have heard it said on occasions that we cannot give our opinion on numbers and therefore we are saying nothing new when we say that world demographic tendencies reveal a gradual ageing of the population. The rapporteur has already mentioned the percentage of the European population over the age of 65, 16 %, an estimated 22 % and 27.5 % for 2025 and 2050, and that the number of people over 80 is going to increase as well, from 3.6% in 2000 to 6% in 2025 and to 10% in 2050. In view of these statistics it is no good to bury our heads in the sand like an ostrich and wait to see what happens and nor must we be alarmist. The demographic situation is obviously a success for society, which can be attributed to medical care and an improvement in living conditions in general. Elderly people do not make up an homogenous group and their needs therefore also vary. Policies relating to the elderly must focus on the double perspective of their needs and the care they require – and which they have a right to – in order to meet those needs, and of their potential and the services they lend to society. No society – including European society – can afford not to take advantage of the contributions elderly people can make in terms of their experience, training and knowledge. As well as Article 152 of the Treaty, these policies comply with Article 21 of the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights, by prohibiting all discrimination – in this case on grounds of age – and Article 25, stating that the Union recognises and respects the rights of the elderly to lead a life of dignity and independence and to participate in social and cultural life. These principles would be deprived of content if they were not accompanied by policies to turn them into realities. In this regard, the Barcelona Council of March 2002 pointed out the need to initiate and develop cooperation between the Member States on these issues during 2002 and 2003, the need for an exchange of good practices and information and the need to hold a debate on the common challenges at European level. Healthcare systems must face a triple challenge. Firstly, access to care for all, with the special characteristics of care for the elderly; secondly, a high degree of quality and, thirdly, the financial sustainability of the systems. I believe these are three necessary, minimal and laudable objectives, and I would like to draw attention to the close link between them. Whatever the system of funding, taxation or contributions, their achievement can and must be promoted also through the promotion of healthier lifestyles, prevention measures and increasing awareness on the part of service providers and users on the correct application of therapies and medications. This will allow a balance between the three objectives. The risk of prioritising the objective of financial sustainability could undermine those of quality and accessibility, but also, without sustainability, quality and accessibility would only be possible in the short term. –  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in this House to support the proposal by the Committee on Fisheries, principally to uphold the need to exclude northern hake stocks from the scope of the proposal for a Council regulation establishing measures for the recovery of cod and hake stocks. I do so because the situations of the cod and hake stocks are very different. If they are not excluded, we will be putting at risk thousands of jobs and an industry on which many coastal communities in the European Union depend for their living, on no verified, irrefutable technical-scientific grounds. This socio-economic consequence should be a good enough reason to make us think, but there are other reasons too: the proposal is based on an alleged scientific study, but by November 2001 the Scientific, Technical and Economic Committee for Fisheries was pointing out that the precautionary points of reference used by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea were not currently valid and, besides, recommended that they should be reviewed immediately. As nobody, no administration, has a monopoly on common sense and doing the right thing, there is an obvious need for a scientific advisory appeal mechanism, a need for peer review and, of course, a need to listen to and analyse in depth what the affected sector seriously has to say with their verified and verifiable arguments and studies. When decisions of great social significance are to be adopted, they need to be very well grounded; the studies on which they are based have to be irrefutable. All that has been said so far, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean opposing other serious and responsible alternative measures for conserving and improving hake stocks until such time as the studies have been completed and confirmed, but we must not support measures that may have irreversible consequences. It must, of course, be possible to apply the precautionary principle without causing economic disasters or social upheavals. A balance is possible, and the Commission must seek it. A first step will be verified, confirmed studies, which will show we are quite right and provide us with arguments. Things have to be done properly, especially when our fishermen are clearly at risk of being seriously harmed. – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Bouwman, ladies and gentlemen, in the majority of normal cases, the main – and often the only – source of resources necessary to sustain the salaried worker and their family is the income generated through their work, that is, their salary. Therefore, with the salary protection system, as well as the mechanisms to facilitate, in a privileged fashion, the payment of salaries from the real assets of the debtor employee, the legislator creates a specific guarantee of the payment of salaries under the responsibility of the public system, often structured around a public administration body, in cases of employer insolvency. This was the main objective of Directive 80/987/EEC: to guarantee within the Community a minimum level of protection in the event of employer insolvency. It is true that the application of this directive met with very many difficulties, both in relation to the definition of the concept of insolvency for the purposes of the directive, the need to set limits in relation to the time period and amount of responsibility and the increasingly frequent consequences of transnationality – as the rapporteur has said – and globalisation, as well as the need to adapt this directive to other previous directives and the need to simplify the rules relating to the payment of salaries owed, and all of these are difficulties which the modification is intended to overcome. The modifications of the text of the common position strengthen the objective of worker protection, laid down in the directive, and I believe that they represent considerable progress. We still need to define, with the necessary clarity, certain concepts which need to be more precise – possibly due to the fact that social reality is almost always a step ahead of legal reality - such as the concept of the worker, so that it includes all real forms of employment, the problems resulting from productive decentralisation or externalisation, the concept of the role of salary or work dependence in relation to economic dependence, and also that of the proper use of the guarantee institution. However, on the whole, we should be pleased that we have reached this point. I believe that the concern of the Commission, Parliament and the Council during the Spanish Presidency demonstrate that it is possible and feasible to create ‘more Europe’ and furthermore shows the candidate countries the direction they must take in order to achieve a more social Europe. I therefore believe that I should end by congratulating the rapporteur, despite the fact that, strictly speaking, not all the desirable objectives have been met in theory. Nevertheless, surely the possible is the enemy of the ideal and, now that we are so close to the 52nd anniversary of the date on which we can say that Europe began to be built, perhaps we should say that Europe is being built slowly, step by step, but we should also stress, Commissioner, that the social dimension is finally taking the place it deserves in this Europe we want to see. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must firstly congratulate Mrs Damião. Furthermore, and not just because of the traditional closeness of the Galician and the Portuguese people, but also out of personal affection, I hope that she gets better soon. Since work means risk, the issue of risk at work could probably be simplified into a simple formula: what percentage of risk has to be accepted? But it is also the case that certain risk agents are characterised by their almost imperceptible, hidden and silent, and therefore more dangerous, action. Exposure to asbestos can cause serious illnesses, such as pleural and lung fibrosis and cancer of the lung, pleura or peritoneum. It can also cause other types of tumour, such as cancer of the larynx, of the rectum or of the urogenital system, regardless of the type of asbestos: amphibole or chrysotile. Periods of incubation vary, according to the academics, from 20 to 50 years. Furthermore, there are still doubts and uncertainties about the effect of small inhaled doses and the limit and percentage of risk beneath which it is certain that cancer will not be caused, and the difference in risk between chrysotile asbestos – which seems to be less harmful – and amphibole asbestos, as well as the concern to prohibit the use of asbestos in work relating to the repair, refurbishment and restoration of buildings. In cases of demolition, workers can and must come into contact with asbestos despite the fact that this is prohibited globally. I believe that, given the imminent enlargement of the European Union already agreed upon, it is extremely important that we modify Directive 83/477 on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work owing to the use of products and materials containing asbestos in the future Member States. While it is mainly used in activities connected to construction, its use is not exclusive to that economic activity. In fact, it has been used in marine, aeronautical and industrial equipment construction and these can therefore be considered to be risk activities. Given this situation, reorienting the protection measures for the people suffering most exposure, studying the different risks arising from activities during which exposure is necessary, intensifying measures for preventing exposure or reducing it to a minimum and reviewing exposure levels, are objectives which justify the modification of the Directive. I support the rapporteur’s three amendments. Requesting practical orientation on the basis of social dialogue to prevent the consequences of sporadic or low intensity exposure. Calling for the provision of suitable breaks in situations of physical or climatic burden, which should also be established on the basis of social agreement. To ask the Member States to lay down sanctions which are effective, dissuasive and proportional – I believe that in the Spanish translation it should say ‘’, since it is not a question of establishing a particular proportion, but rather of taking account of the seriousness of the violation, time of exposure, risk, etc. The three requests express a will to comply with the Lisbon strategy. That strategy spoke of better jobs and better jobs undoubtedly means safer jobs. I am therefore particularly pleased to hear that the Commissioner is in favour of these amendments. Mr President, in order to be effective, all of this legislation, this modification, this updating of the legislation, requires other measures. As indicated by the health at work strategy 2002-2006, it is necessary to promote a culture of prevention. That prevention is the objective of the amendments I am referring to. Of course, the use of social dialogue will be the best method for spreading the culture of prevention of risks at work, in general, and of the risks resulting from the use of asbestos in particular. It will therefore be the best method for horizontalising policies, for research, compliance with the law and establishing health and safety conditions or, to put it another way, for respecting human dignity. Finally, I would urge that the timetable be complied with, because by complying with the timetable mentioned by Mr Hughes we will immediately improve the protection of the workers in question. We will therefore be complying with the provisions of Article 31 of the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Jensen, for her good work and for the efforts she has made so that we may be in this position today. In the Minutes of the Turin European Council we notice that, if Europe were to advance only in the economic and monetary fields, its success would not be guaranteed – I am quoting from memory here – because we would be forgetting the most important thing Europe has: its citizens. To involve European citizens in the process of European integration, the European Union has to take a greater interest in their concerns. An example of this appears in the introduction to Title VIII of the Treaty, with regard to employment, following Amsterdam, with an important reference made in Luxembourg, as well as the 2000 Lisbon European Council, where the conversion to a competitive and dynamic knowledge-based society that can grow in an economically-sustainable fashion with more and better jobs and better social cohesion was set as a new strategic objective for the European Union, and therefore to achieve the conditions for full employment. This objective was highlighted once again at the Barcelona Summit. For these reasons, I believe that this Parliament and Council decision on Community measures to stimulate employment seeks to noticeably improve cooperation with Member States in analysis and research in the field of employment and the implementation of these results in the labour market. It also seeks to coordinate employment policies within the general Lisbon and Barcelona objectives and to apply an information and transparency policy as a response to the aspirations of European citizens to be well informed on European employment strategy, in which they place great hopes. It also intends to support the Member States’ efforts to evaluate their action plans, exchange experiences and good practices, carry out a follow-up to the employment strategy, particularly through the European employment survey, involving the various players to a greater extent, from the authorities to those seeking work, and to rationalise and guarantee coherence in order to avoid duplicating actions and of course expenditure. I think therefore that we are dealing with an important decision full of good content and good intentions which hopes to rationalise and optimise European employment strategy and which will constitute a step forward in the process of European integration for all European citizens. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, at this time in the afternoon, after all the previous speeches, one feels that the vast majority of the points that can be covered have already been made. Therefore, as a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would like to focus on and limit my speech to a few matters that were considered and decided upon at the Barcelona Summit, which many feel explain the success of the Summit and justify why it has been said that it went reasonably well. As we can now see the end of the economic slowdown, there is a clear and determined commitment to get back to the Lisbon Strategy and to achieve the crucial objective that it set: full employment. At times Europeans find it hard to believe, or, to look at it in another way, they tend to think, that Europe is always concerned with looking at what will have to be done in the future and that it is actually doing very little. I would like to specifically highlight the decisions and agreements made at the Barcelona Summit, which, if properly presented, will enable those citizens who are currently not exactly enthusiastic to change their views. There is, of course, the commitment to achieve full employment with more and better jobs and, what is more, before the end of this decade. There is also the commitment to tax reduction for the lowest salaries and to accentuate measures to motivate people to seek employment, to control unemployment and of course to encourage the incorporation of women into the labour market through various measures, many of which had already been highlighted here. In addition there is the strategy for flexible extension of the length of the working life in view of the changes in our demography, the improvement in the transfer of social rights and employment mobility in general. These are all feelings and ideas, and therefore decisions, through which as European citizens we can take hold of and perceive Europe more and, what is more, we are going to take hold of it by strengthening the role of social partners, which makes us all jointly responsible in this magnificent task of constructing Europe, a Europe that is much more supportive and therefore fairer. – Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work and efforts made in achieving a recommendation for second reading which is balanced and flexible and which may lead to the success of a conciliation which will probably not be easy. Neither is it easy to achieve the general objective of organising working time for people who carry out professional mobile road transport activities, because it is necessary to take account of the health and safety of drivers, as well as road safety and, therefore, collective safety. And because another objective must be to prevent unfair competition. I believe that the Directive must include self-employed workers. Article 31 of the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights says, ‘Every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity’. And self-employed are workers in every sense of the definition. And the second paragraph of this Article says, ‘Every worker has the right to limitation of maximum working hours, to daily and weekly rest periods and to an annual period of paid leave’. I believe that the text, in the terms in which it provides for inclusion, is intended to achieve both the elimination of unfair competition and the granting of a prudent time limit for the self-employed to adapt to the new situation and to ensure their protection. At the same time, the prudence of the time limit is not going to encourage companies to dismantle themselves and resort to pseudo self-employment. In summary, I believe that the recommendation must guide us and contribute to creating a more just and transparent society, where it is difficult for unfair competition to take place, and where due attention is paid to the health, safety and dignity of workers whether they be self-employed or salaried. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must congratulate Mrs Gillig on her good work and her balanced approach to this important report. I believe that we are living in a global world, an information and technology society, and that what we want to achieve is a society with a dynamic, highly developed economy that creates more and better jobs. Hand in hand with this economic buoyancy, however, go sustainable development and social cohesion. In the European Union, we benefit from a social model – the European social model – that has been developing for the past 40 years and which has given rise to what we call our “social acquis”, an important legacy, which includes the free movement of workers, gender equality, health and safety at work, the fight against social exclusion and poverty, etc. These principles have also been given form in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the first chapter of which concerns dignity and the fourth concerns solidarity. Globalisation, however, involves further regulation of economic and trade relations and also, at the same time, new risks. These new policies must in no way constitute a barrier to those practices and ideas, but rather, must contribute to social development and to promoting respect for fundamental rights. In the terminology or ideology of the ILO, freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the prohibition or abolition of all forms of forced labour, the elimination of child labour and the absence of discrimination with regard to employment, have been described as fundamental rights. Commissioner, I believe that the application of these rules and their distribution, which should act as an important model for the candidate countries, must constitute a priority for the Commission in its interinstitutional cooperation with the Council and the Member States. I also believe that social dialogue will be a suitable instrument for applying and distributing the principles of our European social model. Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, it is obligatory to begin by congratulating Mrs Bastos on the excellence of her report and at the same time to welcome the timeliness of this debate. Despite the solemnity of numerous legal texts, such as Article 13 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Articles 20 and 21 of the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights, and various texts in our respective constitutions, the truth is that discrimination against women continues to be a reality. This debate comes on International Women’s Day, but I believe that the success of this commemoration must not end with holding certain celebratory events or producing fortunate or appropriate slogans. The success must be operational and lasting. I believe that employment is the best means for integration, for overcoming differences and creating equality. Although the presence of women in the labour market has increased over recent years, the increase has been insufficient: there is still wage discrimination, redundancies as a result of maternity, a lack of specific prevention of risks for pregnant women, sexual harassment and psychological harassment – ‘mobbing’ with a view to dismissal, thereby making a constant mockery of the rights of women such as the right to childcare leave, etc. Therefore, alongside these employment aspects we need to support the family – the low demographic rate demands this – we need to support home-working by means of the new technologies and their distribution, we need to make women’s working hours more flexible, to integrate immigrant women, to increase employment opportunities for women who have been victims of domestic violence and, at the same time, of course, to speed up separation and divorce procedures, increase crèches and nurseries, and all of this – as Mrs Hermange said earlier – within the context of fulfilling the Lisbon strategy. To conclude, Mr President, in society women must not have more problems than men, but the same problems. They must have the same opportunities and responsibilities as men and they must receive ‘equal pay for equal work’. This requires, Mr President, and I will end here, a change in culture, in mentality and habits. And this cultural change must be extended to all social groups, so that equal opportunities are real and not just symbolic, only existing on paper. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and say that the European Commission has for several months been launching a series of very important actions for the recovery of fisheries resources that are suffering serious deterioration. Until now the plans have focussed on cod and hake resources in the north and, although there will soon be other proposals affecting other stocks, such as hake in the south, today we are talking about the re-establishment of cod stocks. I believe, Commissioner, that there are certain elements missing from the Commission’s proposal. Firstly, the lack of instruments to confront the socio-economic impact of the plans for the recovery of fishing grounds. I would like to stress the consequences of recovery plans for coastal regions or areas dependent of fishing. Therefore, within a reasonable time period – no more than a year, naturally – the European Commission should present a report, accompanied by proposals to alleviate the social and economic repercussions of the measures adopted, on the basis of the information communicated by the Member States. Commissioner, it is not a question of failing to defend the recovery of stocks, but of defending the fishermen and their families. This week, the ICES published its latest opinion on the situation of stocks of various species and there is little optimism to be had from it. While the Commission should monitor the various scientific opinions, it is not sufficient to automatically accept this type of proposal with serious repercussions of many kinds – social, most importantly: we must call for the presentation of compensatory measures to prevent traumatic situations in the regions dependent on fisheries, for fishermen and for their families. Finally, I believe, and I will end here, Mr President, that the involvement of the sector must be the third essential requirement for the success of the proposals on the recovery of stocks. . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in his explanatory statement the rapporteur states that the  accident highlights the importance, among other things, of adequately monitoring full compliance with existing European and international regulations on maritime safety. Other colleagues will no doubt refer to other aspects of the regulations governing maritime safety, as the Commissioner herself and the draftsman did. I am going to look at it from the point of view of health at work. I would highlight the need for continuous efforts in the area of health and safety at work, including the promotion of a culture of prevention and of the maritime professions. The training of seafarers – including the issue of a common language, Commissioner – is essential for improving maritime transport safety and preventing accidents. I would point out to the Commission and the Member States the need for a reform of international maritime law that deals with matters such as health and safety at work and the requirements of contemporary maritime transport. I would highlight the very serious harmful consequences now and for the generations to come of the ‘anything goes’ policy and the lack of scruples of businessmen and organisations motivated solely by profit. We must establish effective and sufficiently demanding regulations, which must be complied with in real terms and not just formally, which will prevent negative environmental, social and economic consequences and maybe, just maybe, the loss of life. In conclusion, in addition to thanking the members of the Committee on Employment for their unanimous support for the opinion, I want to reiterate my gratitude to the seafarers, fishermen, volunteers and all those who have fought with great determination to combat pollution and support the environment and fisheries resources. Naturally, I would also like to thank the authorities in my country, who made every effort and took great pains to avoid more serious damage and who, in particular, are working through the ‘Galicia Plan’ to repair the damage caused and, since the very serious  accident, revitalise the area affected and Galicia as a whole. Commissioner, we thank you for your political will, reflected in decisions, and we encourage you to continue with your work. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Carlo Fatuzzo on his excellent work, and in particular on his efforts to introduce the many amendments suggested. In my view, the stereotype of old age has itself become old and outdated. It bears no relation to contemporary society. If asked to think of someone aged 60 or 65, one does not conjure up a picture of a decrepit individual whose physical and mental capacities are significantly impaired. That longer life span, extending well beyond the age of 65, represents a considerable achievement as regards culture, society, health and economics. Nonetheless, this achievement may become a problem if we fail to appreciate its deeper meaning and adapt accordingly. It is important to take advantage of its full potential. It has been said that ageing is the most far-reaching social phenomenon of the beginning of this century. As Mrs Hermange already stated, the ratio between the potentially active population and that over the age of 65, currently 4 to 1 in many Member States, will become 2 to 1 towards the year 2050. It is essential to adjust to such changes so as to minimise their negative aspects. Achievements in the areas of culture, society, health and economics mean senior citizens should be able to enjoy a good quality of life at that age too, and society should benefit from their experience and wisdom. It will therefore be necessary to provide for a combination of public pensions and offer older people the opportunity to work if they so wish. Flexible working patterns and equal opportunities are very important in this connection and need to be promoted. Women often work on a part-time basis, or may have done so in the past. Sometimes they join the labour force later in life, or return to it after perhaps bringing up a family. I believe the best approach is an open method of coordination. This makes it possible to approximate legislation on social matters between Member States. It also makes it possible to ensure that these people do not endure poverty at that stage of their lives. In addition, it facilitates mobility by recognising that pensions can be exported, as stated just recently at the Barcelona Council. Further, it also allows the skills of the so-called third age to be put to good use through social ventures and voluntary work, though not exclusively in these areas. Above all, it means senior citizens can be encouraged to be actively involved in the workplace, by promoting the policy of gender equality, as I said earlier. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank Mrs Damião very much for her work on such a sensitive aspect of health in the workplace. Discussion on improvements in the labour market and on a better quality of work within the culture in which stable work was an underlying principle of labour law usually focuses more on what is now termed health in the workplace and used to be referred to as health and safety in the workplace. There is a tendency to overlook a fundamental issue. Work always entails a risk. No situation is free from risk. Worse, that risk is sometimes hidden, not immediately obvious, does not strike us at once, and is difficult to detect. This, I believe, is the situation in which those who work with asbestos find themselves. Working with asbestos can be dangerous. It can result in very serious illnesses such as lung fibrosis, pleural fibrosis or mesothelioma. A number of doubts and unanswered questions still surround the use of this substance. These concern for example the effect of inhaling small doses on the risk of cancer, the limits below which one can be certain that cancer will not arise and the carcinogenic properties of various types of amphibolic asbestos or chrysothile asbestos. Then there are the many jobs in which asbestos is or has been used, jobs undertaken by small and medium-sized enterprises with inadequate personal safety equipment. Further, the equipment is often incomplete or is incorrectly used. I refer to jobs such as maintenance, repair, overhaul or refurbishment of buildings, and also to the repair or scrapping of vessels, motor vehicles or industrial equipment. Another equally significant uncertainty relates to the length of time it takes for the disease to manifest itself. This has a bearing on establishing responsibility for it, and on the need for preliminary or regular medical examinations for workers at risk from asbestos. As was stated previously, preventive measures are also needed for those who happen to live in the vicinity and may be indirectly affected. I have to say in this regard that we do not agree at all with the rapporteur that the directive should cover more than the protection of workers. I should like to be very clear. I mean all types of workers at risk of contracting asbestos-related diseases. This is because in our view a different legal basis is called for. We do not believe either that the onus of proof should be reversed automatically in cases where the cause of the pathology is in doubt. On the other hand, we do totally agree with the rapporteur on the need to change the culture on risk prevention in the workplace in general and on prevention of risks related to asbestos in particular. We agree on the need to raise awareness at all levels that is, at state level and amongst employers and workers. We also agree that more training and information would be useful and indeed necessary. In short, we do feel it is time for a change of culture. I appeal to the Commissioner on this. The change should be set in train and promoted by the Commission and the Council. We agree too on the importance of social dialogue as a way of achieving an effective policy on health in the workplace. We would also encourage administrations to collaborate amongst themselves. We would possibly ascribe less importance to a third interlocutor, namely the state. This is because the state clearly has a great many other concerns, and a large number of new regulations are not what is needed in this case, unless new risks become apparent. Action at a non-regulatory level will prove much more important. In conclusion Commissioner, I feel the Commission could make a significant contribution in this area. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly congratulate Mrs Glase on the good work she has done. Within the context of the free movement of people, the report focuses on the posting of workers in three possible circumstances: posting within the framework of a contract signed between the company of origin and the receiver of the services; secondly, the possible posting of workers to a workplace or company which belongs to the same group; and thirdly, the posting of workers from a temporary work agency based in a Member State which provides them for a employer acting in a Member State other than that of the provider. Any of these circumstances can cause a variety of problems for posted workers: probably the first to spring to mind concerns their working conditions; hence the importance of Directive 96/71/EC, which is a catalogue of minimum rules for Community law protection, although it is insufficient, since it does not cover rules or aspects such as Social Security. I believe the rapporteur has identified the problems correctly: unfair competition, differences in social protection and, therefore, harm for workers, the need for a clear definition of the Workers’ Statute. We should, however, and this has also been mentioned, add possible abuse in posting and the problems stemming from subcontracting and generally from new forms of externalisation, decentralisation or deconcentration of production or, if you like, from the new forms of productive organisation. In summary, Commissioner, I believe we are faced with an opportunity, or perhaps the need, for a common core of obligatory minimum standards for all cases and as a minimum guarantee, below which the working condition or the provision of services is illegal when the legislation of the State in which the service is provided offers less protection than that of the place of origin of the posting. Without a guarantee of this kind, in the territory in which it may take place, I believe that the possibility of abuse and fraud are within reach of irresponsible employers. What is worse, we could be inviting them to commit this fraud or abuse. – Mr President, after first congratulating and thanking Mrs Jensen for her good work, I would like to start my speech with reference to the fact that last Sunday, in Galicia – my country – a former Member of this European Parliament, Manuel Fraga Iribarne, founder of the Spanish Popular Party, obtained, for the fourth time running, an absolute majority in the elections to the Galician Parliament. I mention this because, during its twelve years in power, the Fraga government has been constantly concerned about the issues and problems arising from the lack of employment in Galicia, and for this reason, during the latest election campaign, it made a commitment to providing jobs for the young unemployed under the age of 30 consisting of a one-year contract for those who have been out of work or unemployed for six consecutive years. This concern about employment, as laid down in Article 3 of the Treaty and which takes the form of a European Community action for promoting the coordination of employment policies in Member States, confirmed by the special European Councils on employment in Luxembourg and Lisbon, which resolutely advocate a global employment strategy, implies and demands a systematic mobilisation of all Community employment policies, whether these be framework policies or support policies. If we want to become a knowledge-based economy that is both competitive and dynamic, able to grow economically in a sustainable fashion, with more and better jobs and with greater social cohesion, so that we can once again meet the conditions necessary for full employment, we should encourage the coordination of employment policies between Member States, upholding, of course, the right to make decisions that correspond to the particular circumstances of each Member State, the exchange of good practices, including the aforementioned forms of participation for social partners and also local and regional authorities, without forgetting the need for the coordination of policies directed towards the creation of employment. I therefore think that the commitment made by Mr Fraga Iribarne is good practice that could be exported or exchanged with others. It will provide Galician youth with the chance to become integrated into the labour market, make it easier for them to gain the necessary training and experience, both in their quest for a first job as well as subsequently being able to keep that job or to move on to other jobs. I think that this is good practice, in the same way that the practice for the conciliation of family life with professional life was also good, another initiative of the Galician government. –  Mr President, sea transport and its importance have been discussed on numerous occasions in this Chamber. Because it is more environmentally friendly, we have also talked about the need for or the suitability of modal transfer onto short sea shipping, which could be an element in the Community strategy to comply with the Kyoto commitments; about the fact that recent studies show that sea transport is responsible for only 12% of all discharges into the sea, or that it is the most energetically efficient mode of transport, and that compared with overland transport structures, which are highly saturated in developed countries, especially in Europe, the sea is an open, free infrastructure that is still far from saturated. The media occasionally report on the tragedies that occur, sometimes with the loss of human lives. Fortunately, because of both the extensive international safety regulations and the more rational attitude and greater awareness that today govern sea transport, accidents and pollution have been considerably reduced. I believe that the measures under consideration today reveal the commitment of our institutions to take on and to enhance vessel safety and the protection of the marine environment, and for that we must congratulate the Commission and the Vice-President, who have tabled six legislative proposals in less than a year. They have reacted well. As a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I want to talk about vessels not just as places of work but also as places where the living conditions of professional seamen are developed, and therefore I think that, in addition to the efforts to improve safety for the lives and wellbeing of seamen, an effort also needs to be made to improve the living and working conditions for these workers while they are aboard ship. –  Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights says in its preamble: ‘It places the individual at the heart of its activities, by establishing the citizenship of the Union and by creating an area of freedom, security and justice’, and in its first article it adds: ‘Human dignity is inviolable. It must be respected and protected’. I bring in this quotation from the Charter of Fundamental Rights because some situations described in this magnificent report – I congratulate the rapporteur on it – are probably incompatible with this declaration that has just been willingly adopted by this Parliament. Compared with these statements, reality is stubborn. Eurostat data tells us that 18% of the population of the European Union live on less than 60% of average national income or, in other words, 65 million Europeans are living in poverty. Naturally the national poverty rates are varied and different, as are the types of poverty: urban, in industrial slums, in isolated rural areas, etc., or the poverty linked to sex or age discrimination – I am referring, of course, to poverty among women and child poverty. Today’s worlds, the society of globalisation and the world economy, the society of information and technological development, may also have a not very positive influence and create, or help to create, new forms of poverty, on account of the intrinsic difficulties in this kind of society in opening up access to employment – to me this is the fundamental route to social integration and inclusion – and because of the need to improve employment and obtain higher-quality jobs. Europe has created a lot of employment. In my country, Spain, José María Aznar’s government has made an effort and adopted a commitment: it has succeeded in bringing down a high unemployment rate, and it is still upholding this objective, which is being met, and this commitment. But I do not think we should be satisfied just with what has been achieved. To achieve a Europe that encourages integration, in the words of the Lisbon European Council, requires joint effort and joint action. This comes through knowing the characteristics and the means that can get everyone involved, in society as a whole and in the various governments, on account of the need to quantify objectives and eradicate child poverty, because child poverty must generate other kinds of poverty and perhaps establish formulae of social exclusion that perpetuate poverty and perhaps even destitution. Therefore, Commissioner, I ask for a special effort to be made to eradicate this child poverty. – Mr President, first of all I would like to say that relations between Galicia and the North of Portugal have always been special, because the Miño river has never marked a boundary, it has not separated, but rather united. However, unfortunate events such as those which took place on 22 June, caused by a small number of people, must not become the general rule. It is therefore important to adopt measures which will prevent, in all events, their repetition and that the sanction adopted by the competent partieshall serve as an example. Therefore, those of us from the other side of the river – and we are all Europeans – wanted to know how this issue is being dealt with and whether exemplary decisions have been taken so that these events will not be repeated in the future. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no sensible person would dare to reject the principle of equality between men and women, or in other words between human beings. In recent days, in my region, Galicia, this equality is being clearly demonstrated, through solidarity and also through pain. Yesterday, television stations broadcast the human and heart-breaking image of the minute’s silence expressing condemnation and rejection of the latest terrorist attack by people, men and women, who were working to recover Galicia’s environment, the marine environment, in the fight to deal with the consequences of the  disaster. Yesterday as well, the media reflected the figures relating to domestic violence inflicted on women by their husbands, boyfriends or ex-partners. In some sections of the media it was also pointed out that the great majority of victims did not recognise their situation. This is what seems to me to be the most serious violation of sex equality. On the other hand, it is of some comfort that the result of the survey suggests an improvement in the situation in comparison with the survey of 1999, but it is worrying that this situation is continuing 15 years after a constitutional text, in its marvellous Article 14, declared that all Spaniards, in this case, are equal before the law, and that there could be no discrimination on the grounds of race, sex etc. Our Charter of Fundamental Rights, in Article 20, declares that all persons – it does not say men and women, which is not necessary – are equal before the law. And Article 21 states that all discrimination is prohibited and, in particular, discrimination on the grounds of sex, race etc. Last Tuesday, the plenum of the Spanish Congress of Deputies approved the idea that all legislative provisions produced by the government should include a report analysing their impact on gender equality. I believe that practical conclusions should be drawn from Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou’s report, which is excellent, given the balance she has achieved on an issue on which it is very easy to fall into demagoguery and not do enough, and we must move on from theory to reality and insist on the objective of equality through the horizontalisation of policies promoting equality, so that principles may become reality and so that reality may reflect the principles which the great majority of us advocate and which we want to see alive and enshrined in the Europe we are building. – Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Hermange on the quality of her report and also on her generosity in accepting the amendments presented in committee, which will have contributed to enriching the report but, above all, in taking on board the differing sensitivities in dealing with measures for combating a possible situation of inequality: the inequality resulting from disability. Although we might not realise it, we are not nevertheless mistaken in stating that the number of people suffering some form of disability in the European Union stands at around 10% of the population, which currently means some 37 million people, and that disability is not a homogenous category. We could say that there is no such thing as disability, but rather there are disabled people and therefore, whether the disabilities are visible or invisible, slight or serious, single or multiple, chronic or intermittent, whether they affect mobility, hearing, sight or speech, all of these people – and I repeat, people – have to face difficult barriers when it comes to accessing the various aspects or areas of their social lives despite these limitations. I would like specifically to refer to the area of employment in relation to this policy which is intended to create a barrier-free Europe and furthermore a Europe with a high level of employment. And therefore, to name but a few factors, we should refer to the adaptation of the procedures for examinations and tests of the abilities of disabled candidates; access to specific training activities for general employees and, perhaps, for public officials in particular, with reduced abilities; to measures for the retention of staff who have suffered some incapacity during, or in the execution of, their work; to the reorganisation of work and flexible hours, part-time work, etc. It seems to me to be extremely important that 2003 be declared European Year of Disabled Citizens. It seems equally important – maybe more – that each day we reinforce the idea that each and every disabled person is one more citizen, one more European of the almost 400 million Europeans who are protected by Article 13 of the EC Treaty and who expect specific actions, the coordination of policies within the European Union and who expect to see an increase in people’s awareness and sensitivity, since it may be that the main barrier they face is a lack of awareness. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs for this report. Without getting into the issue of the legal basis, I would also like to thank them for their desire to resolve the problems despite the legal digressions and naturally we expect the same good will from the Council. It is the case that the European Parliament has dealt with the issue we are discussing today, the Cooperative Society, in various resolutions. Some of these resolutions are very significant. For example, in 1987, the contribution of cooperatives to regional development; in 1989, the role of women in cooperatives and local job-creating initiatives; or in 1994, the role of cooperatives in the growth of women's employment. If we compare these resolutions with the commitment made at the Lisbon Summit in 2000, and ratified in Barcelona in 2002, we will see that the content coincides to a great extent, equality policies, job creation, etc. In fact, apart from meeting the needs on a strictly local level for clearly local undertakings, all types of company can organise and carry out their activities at Community level. The European phenomenon, with its dimension represented by enlargement, determines and defines new territorial rules, in deed or in law, which require a uniform applicable legal framework; and a lack of this uniformity may hinder both the grouping imposed by competitiveness and the operational and subsistence requirements. Within this framework, we must not forget that cooperatives are groups of people or legal entities in which people, the personal dimension, are paramount, and must always be – and in fact are – very present. Let us remember – and this has been stressed here – that, by means of cooperative formulae, jobs have been preserved, with the participation of workers, who have played a very important role, and in this regard I would firstly like to stress the right and the opportunity for workers’ representatives to participate both at the time the European Cooperative Society is established and throughout its existence, and in particular at key moments, such as at the time of mergers or restructuring. Secondly, we must stress the need for the maintenance of the concept and the practice of the participation of workers’ representatives, with the special characteristics represented by the existence and co-existence of the competent body of the Cooperative Society and the workers’ representative body. I also believe it is necessary to insist that it is necessary and appropriate for horizontal policies, to which Parliament is particularly committed – gender equality, health at work, non-discrimination etc. – to be vigorously promoted by means of the Cooperative Society. And finally we must bear in mind that in order to carry out its task, which carries with it rights as well as obligations and an exclusively public content, function or service, the representatives of the workers must enjoy the same protections as the representatives of workers at national level. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by joining in the almost universal chorus of praise and congratulations for Mr Martin. He does indeed deserve to be congratulated on the quality of his report. It contains an assessment of the present and anticipates a bright future for this important activity. The consolidation of the aquaculture sector in the field of world food production is highlighted, as is its role in helping to reduce the imbalance between imports and exports of fisheries’ products at Community level. The potential of aquaculture as a source of employment is also emphasised. Many new jobs directly or indirectly linked to aquaculture can be created in areas where few other industries exist. I refer to those regions that are heavily dependent on fishing, be they recognised as such or not. Galicia is a case in point. There are employment opportunities in aquaculture itself and in the processing and service industries. According to data supplied by the European Commission last September, the number of people employed has risen to 80 000. The future will not be all plain sailing. It should be recognised that there are certain risks involved, such as environmental pollution, and the transmission of diseases from farmed to wild fish. It is therefore necessary to work towards achieving a healthy environment. Greater vigilance is required, as are technological improvements. Of course, all this will also serve to promote the development of aquaculture itself. More specific provision for research is called for. Parliament must urge the Commission to make this available to ensure aquaculture enterprises can benefit from the support of national and Community programmes. In addition, the relevant regulations should be amended so that aid for setting up and developing enterprises can be forthcoming. Cofinancing of aid to facilitate the implementation of more environmentally friendly farming practices should also be possible. Commissioner, social dialogue between Member States must be promoted, with a view to introducing a code of good practice. Such a code could prevent price falls posing a threat to the sector. Mr President, allow me to mention Valentín Paz Andrade. He was a kind and generous native of Galicia. As they say in the local language, he was ‘’. He loved his region and he loved the sea. Were he alive today he would be deeply saddened by the condition of the sea around Galicia and by how the sea has been affected by environmental disasters. Last July, at the Forum named after Valentín Paz Andrade in La Coruña in Galicia, it was stated that consumption of aquaculture products is set to double by 2010. – Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Langen on the quality of his report. I feel that he has produced an excellent X-ray of the shipbuilding industry in Europe, a true X-ray. And a summary would be that the shipbuilding industry is being threatened from all sides. There is a crisis in the fishing industry, and we Spaniards and Galicians know that only too well. Furthermore, we have flags of convenience in the merchant navy, and ships flying Community flags are being built, or are in danger of being built, outside Europe. And that is due to the fact that we are incapable of condemning a situation of unfair competition. It has been said already here; Korea, Japan, or the threat of China are involved. Mr President, I therefore wonder whether the European Union is opting for a shipbuilding industry which is strong, dynamic and competitive. Of course, the shipbuilding industry also has to achieve the objectives of the European Union, specifically the rationalisation of the industry, an increase in productivity, an improvement in the competitiveness of the existing shipyards and the defence of the environment. But in order to achieve that, so that the process may consolidate the shipbuilding industry and its jobs and calm the fears of the families which depend on it, aid will still be necessary beyond 31 December 2000, because the market situation is not one of equality, but of unfairness and of dumping. We expect decisions from the Commission and the Council which are profoundly political, courageous and decisive, and which, in cases such as Spain, allow the integration of civil and military shipbuilding, and reassign the different areas of the industry in accordance with the needs of each country. It is necessary to provide new stimulus in terms of a sufficient quantity of research and development and also to maintain the operating aid in a way that is legally possible. Our shipyards can survive, but support is necessary and, in the European context, now is the time to appeal to the solidarity and understanding of the countries which do not have shipyards and for which, in many cases, the sea, and its shipbuilding industry, perhaps have less importance. Finally, we have to make decisions which will allow us to confirm and maintain a strong position for the European shipbuilding sector. It will be of little use to us to pursue an objective if, in pursuit of it, shipyards disappear in Europe, suffocating on the way. The example not to follow would be that of Buridan’s ass which, while trying to decide whether to eat rye or barley, ended up dying as a result of its doubts. I therefore call for the defence of the sector, combining the objectives demanded by the European Union with the survival of the industry, making it stronger, more dynamic and more competitive, thereby creating jobs and wealth. – Mr President, after congratulating the rapporteur, I would like to begin by stressing that the ship-building industry throughout Europe is facing a serious crisis which could affect the very credibility of the European Union and perhaps endanger the continued existence of this sector in the Union, given the unfair competition on the part of South Korea. Furthermore, it could represent an invitation or a stimulus to the Koreans to extend their unfair practices to other sectors of economic activity such as automobiles, electronics and steel. Of course, this invitation may not only extend to Korea itself but also to other countries, principally in that region. Transparency suggests a challenge: free competition in a free market. But a free market means the same laws for all, and given that this does not exist at the moment, our transparency in a world and at a time when we do not have the other elements necessary for the existence of that free market, as well as naivety, may result in a clear risk of disaster and also a lack of solidarity from the European Union towards the Member States and the cities of those States. This is the case with a city such as mine, Vigo, in the North East of Spain, where companies and families have made an enormous effort and a difficult sacrifice in order to be competitive. Solidarity therefore demands measures in defence of a sector which is also strategic for Europe; measures which impose the extension of the scope of the defensive support mechanism to all categories of ship built by the Korean shipyards and which also impose an extension of the period the defensive mechanism is in force until 31 December 2003, which is also the period in force of Regulation (EC) 1540/98 or, alternatively, until the WTO procedure against Korea is concluded. Mr President, our future, the future of our States and the citizens of Europe are at stake. Twenty years on will be too late. I believe that solidarity demands, and leads us to hope, that the Commission and the Council will act in the way I have mentioned. These are the reasons given by the companies and workers in the sector in the parts of Europe where shipbuilding is important. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this evening, giving an opinion that I share, a fellow Member described the proposal for the common fisheries policy put forward by Commissioner Fischler as cutting off your head to get rid of a migraine. Fisheries and shipbuilding, which are so closely linked, are matters of deep concern in many Member States, in regions of the European Union such as Galicia and in cities such as mine, Vigo, where shipbuilding and fishing are the source of employment and means of living for many families. In December 2000, a report from Parliament set out the threats to shipbuilding in Europe: crisis in the fisheries sector, flags of convenience in the merchant navy and the risks of ships registered in a Community country being built outside of Europe. This is all because we are incapable of standing up to a situation of unfair competition in the face of a reality of disloyalty and dumping,while we wait for the Commission and the Council to adopt courageous and firm decisions of great political significance. I think that the naval sector accepts and desires the European Union’s objectives: streamlining of the shipbuilding industry, an increase in productivity, an increase in the competitiveness of shipyards, improving the environment, which are objectives that can be achieved in a situation of transparency and equality, but not with the disadvantage of dumping and unfair competition. We therefore ask for a link to be established between the temporary defence mechanism and the decisions adopted by the WTO on measures undertaken by the Community against Korea, and therefore we also ask for the protection mechanism to be extended to sectors of the market such as gas carriers, ferries and roll-on roll-off (Ro-Ro) vessels, as the complaint made to the WTO also includes them, as well as container ships, oil and chemical tankers and natural gas tankers. To conclude: the Regulation should be adopted before it is too late and the shipyards have closed down because nothing can be done. What is worse is that if the European Union does not support shipbuilding through temporary investment, it may be giving an invitation to those who practise dumping and unfair competition to extend those practices to other sectors of the economy, such as the automotive industry and electronics. Both possibilities go against the transparency and freedom of competition that Europe and the European people want. Commissioner, let us not be too late. The migraine will disappear because we will have lost our heads. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the chairman of the committee and also the rapporteur in spite of his absence. I am especially grateful to him for his work because, seeing the title and the aim of this Temporary Committee on improving safety at sea and some of the numerous amendments proposed, one gets an impression of the difficulty of his work as rapporteur, as well as the impression that the political opponents of the party in government of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and also in the Spanish Government were more interested in the partisan and party debate and in trying to erode and wear down the governing party politically than in looking forward and trying to efficiently and effectively improve the various aspects of safety at sea: social, economic, fisheries, tourism, environmental and health. It could seem as though we are living in different countries since, with some exceptions, some of which existed right at the start, as an inhabitant of the region most directly affected I think it can be asserted that the activity in the fisheries sector was initiated at the right time and with all possible guarantees, in accordance with the technical and health reports. It can also be asserted that, according to the opinion of a large majority of the professionals in this sector, the catches have not suffered; that neighbours and tourists who have come to Galicia in great numbers over the recent Easter week, possibly with some specific problems, which there always are, found our beaches to be clean, and that help and assistance have arrived punctually and, furthermore, that we can all be proud of our civic solidarity, in the knowledge that the peoples of Europe are resolved to overcome their former divisions and to shape a common destiny, as called for in the preamble of the future Constitution. Finally, I will refer to the purely social aspect, since maritime activity is a human activity, and every professional maritime worker also has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity and also requires measures intended to raise the prestige of maritime occupations in order to make them more attractive to young people in general and young Europeans in particular. Thank you for this, Mr President, and thank you, Commissioner, for all the progress we have made under your drive and direction. Just a note, Mr President, to say that the situation of Captain Mangouras corresponds to a legal decision and legal decisions must be respected whether you agree with them or not. Mr Savary, if political change affects the independence of the judiciary it would be very serious, because the separation of powers continues to be a fundamental pillar of democracy. . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the European strategy on health and safety at work 2002-2006 has recently been presented. If we wanted to highlight three of its characteristics, I believe it would be right to mention the need to greatly increase awareness, to promote a culture of prevention, as well as the need to promote concrete programmes and actions in small and medium-sized businesses and to consider the demographic reality within which this strategy is to be applied. A fourth characteristic would be the approximation of polices on health at work. This is closely related to the subject of the debate we are dealing with here. The directive on machinery applies practically to all machines, fixed or mobile, of commercial industrial or private use, in the European Union. As draftsman of the committee’s opinion, I was determined to understand the views of entrepreneurs, unions, economic and social agents, technical and legal advisors and academics. The Employment Committee’s amendments intended, with the contribution of social dialogue, to prevent endangering or weakening the provisions relating to health and safety protection, to respond to the need to simplify certain clauses and provisions for the sake of the clarity of the protection regulations and to relate them to other Community provisions, in particular framework Directive 89/391/EEC. In this way, an approximation of national health and safety provisions will facilitate the free movement of machinery without reducing the existing obligatory levels of protection, and the specific measures will increase the quality of jobs, provided that the machinery is used in the prescribed manner. It also clearly stipulates the responsibilities of any person substantially modifying or having modified a piece of machinery. Safe machinery and installations plus prevention – in other words, more awareness and a culture of prevention – will mean less possibility of risks becoming accidents and therefore better jobs in accordance with the strategy of the Lisbon European Council. The rapporteur has said that these measures will guarantee the safety of products. Allow me to add that they will also guarantee the safety of workers, in particular, and that of citizens, in general. The safety of products implies and demands the safety of workers. Mr President, we have voted against the report on immigration, integration and employment by Mr Moraes, despite the fact that it is an excellent piece of work. This is due to the intransigence of certain Members from the Parliamentary Socialist Group who I believe are less concerned about the living and working conditions of immigrants than about making political capital and taking advantage of them for party political reasons. The competent committee, Employment and Social Affairs, given the content of the Communication, ‘immigration, integration and employment’, believed it was not the time to treat the possible right to vote in local or European elections as a key issue, despite the fact that the latter is regulated in the Treaty. Furthermore, this issue is regulated in each Member State. In Spain, in Article 13(2) of the Constitution, and the reciprocity principle laid down in the friendship and cooperation treaties with Chile, Venezuela, Argentina and Uruguay. Also unacceptable is the automatic regularization proposed by the European United Left, in its Amendment No 13, for all those who lack residency authorisation. This would be equivalent, Mr President, to inviting illegal immigration, and, within a short space of time, to creating, in the receiving States, a situation just like the one the immigrants arriving in Europe are trying to escape from. If only we could receive everybody who wanted to come. Since this is not possible, we must receive as many people as we can in the spirit of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union: ‘Human dignity is inviolable. It must be respected and protected’. The Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would have liked to have voted in favour of the Moraes report, because we are concerned about the living and working conditions of immigrants in the European Union: their salary, their occupational health, their work. Because we want their integration and that of their families and children, because we are concerned about the situation of immigrant women, because we are in favour of intercultural coexistence in communities, cities and work places. It is a shame that the intransigence of certain members of the Parliamentary Socialist Group and the desire to make party political capital have prevented the excellent report by Mr Moraes from receiving the vote its quality merited. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Moraes, on his efforts and the good work he has done on a report on immigration, integration and employment, which I believe deserves to be viewed favourably. These are issues that provide fertile ground for personal feelings and opinions, as well as for political temptations, and for that reason I wish to refer to the content of the Communication. Immigration is a reality that needs to be regulated, and we must not bury our heads in the sand or look the other way. In Europe, particularly in the countries with the lowest birth rate (Spain and Italy, amongst others), immigration is a necessary remedy. If the estimated population of the European Union of 25, as the rapporteur has said, is going to drop from 303 million to 297 million by 2020 and to continue to drop to 280 million in accordance with the estimate for 2030, the reduction in employment could have negative effects on economic growth, given that growth results from increased employment and productivity. For this very reason, immigration must not be seen as a problem, but as an opportunity. This is of course an opportunity, however, that raises certain problems which we must resolve. Without being exhaustive, I would point out the problem of the integration of foreign children, children of immigrants, into schools; that of inter-cultural coexistence in communities and workplaces; that of family reunification, with all the problems raised by the very concept of reunification in a broad sense or in a narrow sense; of the regulation of people without documentation; the fight against illegal immigration and the mafias which exploit it; in particular, the problem of the specific situation of women immigrants. In conclusion, immigrants are necessary, but how many can we accept? Everybody who wants to come? I think that is impossible. It would be like transferring the problems of the countries of the immigrants are trying to leave to some of the Member States. Bearing in mind that in the countries with very low birth rates, without immigration, the ratio between active and passive workers would become unsustainable in the medium term, I believe that the best approach is to integrate them. They represent workforce, but, above all, they are human beings who the Member States need. The Tampere proposals are therefore still valid: cooperation with countries of origin, a common European asylum system, management of migratory flows, fair treatment of third-country nationals. For those who each State can legally receive and with a view to their integration, I believe that the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights offers us the course to follow in its Articles 4, 5 and 14, or, which comes to the same thing, the prohibition of inhumane or degrading treatment; the prohibition of forced labour and the right to education. Since we are placing considerable emphasis on the idea of employment, more specifically, Article 15 states that the third-country nationals authorised to work in the territory of the Member States have the right to the same conditions as nationals. Article 20 lays down equality for people before the law. Article 21 prohibits all discrimination on other grounds, including on grounds of nationality; Article 23 guarantees equality between men and women in all areas, including employment, work and pay. The report by Mr Moraes describes situations and proposes measures which are generally acceptable in view of the situation of immigrants who are frequently disadvantaged in terms of pay, health and safety conditions at work, hours and illegal employment. In summary, often, in more cases than we would like, and we would like there to be no such cases, we are talking about exploitation. We said that the first means of integration was employment, naturally followed by cultural integration, but we must not forget that Article 1 of the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights tells us that, ‘Human dignity is inviolable. It must be protected and respected’, and talks about the dignity of all human beings. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the Commission and also the rapporteur, not only the quality of his work, but also on his attitude towards the amendments presented. While social dialogue is to be a effective instrument in the fight against the scourge of work accidents, political dialogue, with the intergroups, has led to the improvement of a report which was excellent from the outset. I have heard it said on occasions that reality is obstinate and we cannot express our opinion on numbers. But we can express our opinion on the circumstances in which things take place and the circumstances they reflect. And the reality in the European Union in terms of health in the workplace, without wanting to be alarmist, is that in 1999 there were 5 500 accidents resulting in fatalities, 4.8 million accidents leading to more than 3 days of inability to work, 500 million working days lost as a result of accidents or health problems, compensation payments and, what is more serious, almost 350 000 people had to change job or their place of work – around 300 000 with some degree of disability – and 15 000 will never be able to take on a new job. Furthermore, there has been a certain worrying rise in the number of accidents in certain Member States of the Union and, in view of enlargement, there is enormous concern about the situation of the States which are candidates for – not future, but imminent – accession with average work accident rates which are above the Community average, although this can be explained, it is true, from different angles, including the importance of higher-risk sectors of activity in those countries. Commissioner, surely we are dealing with the poorest relation of enlargement. The European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights states in Article 31(1) that every worker has the right to work in conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity. The Lisbon Summit – and the Barcelona Summit reiterated this – set as one of its objectives the creation of more and better jobs – and that of better ones must be applied not only to the fight against precariousness, but also to safer jobs and workplaces. I therefore believe that the triple aspects of the strategy are correct; the global approach ranging from professional qualifications to the working day, from demographic trends, the general development of economic activity to that of the working population, the notion that safe and healthy working environments and organisations are factors which affect the performance of the economy in general and of companies in particular and, above all, the culture of risk prevention. Given the risk inherent in work by definition, constant and insistent action is required. It will be necessary to use all the means allowed by the so-called social acquis, from the framework Directive to the rules laid down in the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Protection is therefore going to require joint action by the whole of society, as has already been said: employers, workers, public administrations, citizens. A genuine joint action. But without increasing awareness, without training of workers and the people responsible for health, without horizontal prevention policies, without a culture of prevention – as the Commissioner said – and without sufficient information, decisions on the content of regulations will be of little use. Simplification will be welcome when the time comes and when it is possible, but it will be insufficient without increasing awareness. In the face of this risk, I would go as far to say that action is not sufficient, but that what we need is obstinacy. The culture of prevention must be insistent, to the point of boredom. There must be new standards when necessary, more material and human resources, specific actions in sectors and companies with greater than average accident levels, monitoring of the different plans and exchange of best practices and the avoidance of new risks. The health, safety and dignity of the European citizens is at stake. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I am in danger of being complacent, as figures are not really open to interpretation. I might only be looking at one side of the coin, however. Nonetheless, it is pleasing to note that the number of people unemployed in the European Union has fallen dramatically. The total stood at 17 million in 1997 but by 2002 it was down to 13.5 million. The scenario and pace are now quite different. Of course, I have to admit there is another side to this coin. A hard core of 7.4% of the unemployed have never actually worked, have lost their job, or face major obstacles in getting back into work. In general, these are older people. At least, they are likely to be too old to benefit from schemes for the young, and too young to be considered for early retirement. Alternatively, they might be young and lack the necessary experience and training. I have already referred to two groups in particular need of protection or initiatives, namely the young and older people who have lost their job. Turning to a third such group, on 8 March we celebrated International Working Women’s Day, and its memory should still be fresh in our minds. Women also need support. It is important to honour the commitment given at the Lisbon Council, namely to ensure that over 60% of women are in employment by 2010 at the latest. The proposal we are debating today encompasses three main objectives. These are to increase the rate of employment, to improve job quality and to open up the labour market to the most disadvantaged groups in society. 2003 is the year of the disabled, and this should be in the forefront of our minds. In addition, the horizontal policies so frequently referred to in the House must permeate all our activities. It is difficult to rank these horizontal policies, but health and safety in the workplace, equality and sustainable development are certainly amongst the most important. It is also vital to ensure the involvement of society as a whole and of all levels of administration, regardless of how close they might be to the citizens. The enlargement countries will be watching our activities with interest too. Mr Mann’s report takes account of all these considerations. The report is to be commended in its original version, and also as it now stands following the improvements made in committee. I congratulate Mr Mann and call for a vote in favour of this report. Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking former Commissioner Barnier for his comment on how well the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism worked with him. We pooled our efforts to defend the European Union’s principles on regional policy and territorial cohesion. I would like to thank Mr Barnier for mentioning my name, and I wish him every success at the helm of the French Foreign Ministry. I should also like to thank the former President of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, Mr Hatzidakis. His excellent term as President is crowned by the report he is presenting today on economic, social and territorial cohesion in Europe. I feel it appropriate to take him back to the basics of cohesion. The latter is a long-standing principle. It can be found in the Treaties. Nowadays, we refer to territorial cohesion as well as to economic and social cohesion. Economic cohesion may be achieved in a number of ways. It can be achieved through fiscal policy, by making those who have more pay more. Social cohesion is achieved through other methods. One of these is combating social exclusion. Another is establishing the principle of equal opportunity for all citizens. Territorial cohesion has long been the subject of debate. There has been much discussion of areas with permanent structural difficulties that make it difficult for them to compete in this market. It has been stated that such areas should receive aid and solidarity from the remainder, regardless of the level of their GDP. This applies to agricultural policy, as Commissioner Fischler is well aware. When we help agriculture we do not enquire whether a particular farmer is rich or poor. We simply help agriculture. We wish the whole sector to be competitive. Territorial cohesion policy must be based on this approach too. Islands have to be helped. They find it difficult to compete on equal terms with large urban areas, because the latter always attract those people with the highest level of income. The sparsely populated areas of northern Europe have to be helped, as must the mountain areas. The latter need a wake-up call, to ensure the Pyrenees do not become depopulated. People living in areas with geographical difficulties must not be forced to emigrate. For all these reasons, it would be appropriate to send out an appeal to the new Europe created by the accession of ten new Member States. It has to be borne in mind that our contribution to general cohesion must remain at 0.46% of GDP. Parliament and the Commission have reached agreement on this. It is incumbent of the Council to do so too. A number of initiatives have been very successful. I have in mind programmes such as Equal, Leader, Urban, Interreg and especially the Cohesion Fund. To date, four countries have benefited from the latter, namely Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland. These four countries have proved that when they grow, the whole European Union grows too. It is essential to keep in mind that the extra effort needed to receive the ten new Member States should not be borne entirely by the four countries that have benefited from the Cohesion Fund so far. Solidarity is called for. We must all work together to support the newcomers. –  Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr van Hulten on this very thorough report, which has deservedly received the unanimous support of the other members of the Committee on Budgetary Control. I wish to say, Commissioner, that this report is only an interim measure, which means that it is the first step towards building a bridge between our present system of control and the system that we would like to achieve through the reform. The draft version of the reform of the Financial Regulation is still not available in all languages. Furthermore, the White Paper states, quite unnecessarily, that at the end of the interim period, the Council will be able to take into account whether or not the Financial Regulation has been approved. The need for legal certainty requires us to bring forward the deadlines for this interim period, which has given rise to many reservations in this Parliament, since it seems that we want to have our cake and eat it; in other words, we want to move ahead, but without giving up the precautions that are currently in place. There are overlaps, which means that responsibility is being diluted. Expenditure is doubling but there is no assessment of posts, and so many people are doing the same thing. The staff involved are neither being given responsibility nor being motivated. This interim period, as stated in the White Paper presented by the Committee on Budgetary Control, is being extended indefinitely. I urge you, Commissioner, to ensure that the interim period ends as soon as possible. We know what we want and it is the will of this Parliament, but it is crucial that the transitional period should not be extended beyond what is strictly necessary. I therefore feel that, when it comes to drawing up and suggesting the agendas for the Presidencies, you should not ask us to head straight for the objective we wish to achieve, regardless of the time needed to make the changes in the audit. There has also been a certain carelessness, of which I am sure the Commissioner will take note, so that we will, as soon as possible, achieve the aim of this reform which we began with the van Hulten report. – Mr President, I simply wish to point out that the text whose amendment we are discussing received a practically unanimous consensus in committee and that, at this moment, this consensus is being broken by the Socialist Group. –  Mr President, this Parliament has always upheld its commitment to the Guatemalan peace process ever since the signing of the 1996 peace accords, at which this Parliament was represented, just as we have repeatedly reiterated our intention and desire for national reconciliation in Guatemala, without this meaning the rule of impunity. The joint resolution we have tabled, resulting from the unanimous agreement of all the political groups in this Parliament, underlines the homogeneous and consistent position of this House, which has for so long been committed to human rights in general and the Guatemalan people in their search for peace in particular. The recent court sentences, such as the one that has been mentioned regarding the murder of Bishop Gerardi, have revealed just how important it is that justice and the rule of law should take their usual course and function normally, as in any democratic system, but we must not forget or stand in the way of the changes and pressures that have arisen in this process. We must show our concern for the situation of violence, involving assaults on individuals and members of the judiciary, that has occurred and which has, of course, caused turmoil. The rationale of wounds kept open for a long time is in any case unjustifiable, and the sooner a stop can be put to this the sooner Guatemala can move towards democracy, respect for the rule of law, development, peace and social improvement, leading to prosperity and the creation of the climate of peaceful coexistence and mutual respect that we so strongly desire for Central America and Guatemala. We are not in favour of supporting Mrs Frassoni’s amendment to take concrete action against military commanders. In our opinion the indiscriminate nature of this amendment is not good. Moreover, we would be taking over the role that belongs to the courts, whom we want to support in their vital task of pacification and re-establishing the rule of law. – Mr President, the policy on Commission appointments is, without doubt, a key element within the framework of the reform to which President Prodi is committed. It is a key element because this House shares the determination of Mr Kinnock, the Vice-President responsible for reform, to make appointments based not on national quotas, but on merit. At the moment, therefore, while Parliament has still not taken a position on administrative reform – which we are observing with great attention and which we all hope will, this time, truly be a great success – I wish to say that it is appropriate at this stage to watch how the Commission is putting these good intentions, these projects to reform the appointments policy, into practice. Furthermore, I believe that transparency is a good thing, not only in terms of the control which this House has to carry out, but it is also good in itself. We should bear in mind that the appointments policy provides motivation in some cases and not in others. It promotes some officials at the expense of others and this policy may serve as an example, in terms of solving the principal problem faced by the Community structure – I am delighted that President Prodi and Mr Kinnock agree with this analysis – which is the lack of motivation amongst officials. It is therefore very important that we try to see that good intentions are accompanied by good practices. We all agree on the need to make progress on national quotas, and that appointments should be made on the basis of merit, but this cannot justify certain regional imbalances. At the moment, according to the data available to us, which I am grateful for because the transparency process is a very good thing, most A1 or A2 senior officials are of the same nationality as the Commissioner, way above the German senior officials, for example. There are clear imbalances. To give another example, it cannot be put down to merit that there are 22 A1 or A2 Spaniards and 16 Belgian ones. It is important that in a procedure which needs to be transparent, merit is easily explicable and comprehensible. Merit cannot explain overall imbalances or imbalances in certain Directorates-General, in some of which there is a clear predominance of officials of a certain nationality. It is also important that there is success in the search for equality between the sexes. Nobody would say – I certainly would not – that the fact that there are so few A1 or A2 women is due to an assessment of merit. On the contrary, we are surrounded by women who are much more valuable than us, my wife to name but one. I must tell my friends that behind every great woman there is a great man, because everybody knows that my wife is worth much more than I am. I am grateful to the Socialist spokesperson, who knows my wife, for agreeing with me. It is important that we fulfil the commitment to double the number of female appointments. We will closely monitor this appointments policy, which must be open and decisive. We are happy to accept the new appointments within the Commission, in particular that of the Secretary-General. Many believed that new policies require new faces and, in that context, perhaps the changeover of the Secretary-General should be supported. At least that is what I think. I would like to conclude by saying that when you come in July to explain the changes you are going to make to the procedures for appointments based on merit, I am sure you will have the agreement and support of all the Groups in this House. – Mr President, what worries us most is the low degree of implementation of Structural Fund payments. The worst thing that could happen would be for the contributions to lose support because they are not spent and that we should believe that our intended objectives do not correspond to the needs of those who have to spend them. In the face of this political failing, we can only act by saying that the innocent must not pay for the sins of the guilty and that not all of the Structural Funds are badly managed. I am pleased that the Community initiatives, either Objectives 1 and 2 or the Cohesion Fund, have seen a higher degree of implementation. I am also pleased that the majority of countries do their duties properly, which demonstrates that the procedural measures are easy to comply with, although not all of the countries are as diligent in complying with them. Therefore, the fact that the Structural Funds are not being implemented as we would have liked does not mean that we must spend on other headings, but that we must seriously apply the N+2 commitment. It is obvious that if the countries or regions which have not fulfilled the N+2 clause see that the Funds are returned to them, they will have no incentive to change their attitude. The States and regions which do not use the N+2 must definitively lose their contributions, in favour of those other bodies, regions or States which are going to use them. Therefore, the figure for non-implementation is not serious; our aim must be for the responsibility for non-implementation to fall to those who have caused it. In this respect, I welcome Commissioner Barnier’s efforts to put things in order. – Mr President, Mr Kinnock, Mrs Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen, this debate marks the climax of Parliament’s examination of the White Paper on the reform of the Commission. This examination is intended, above all, to give new life, new support, to the Commission after the crisis it has suffered, which we all regret. I would like to warmly thank Mrs Guy-Quint, Mr Harbour and Mr Lamassoure for their work. We four rapporteurs have worked in a great spirit of cooperation and that means that this procedure, which is complicated in itself, will tomorrow give rise to four coordinated reports, which do not overlap each other and which provide the encouragement which we all wish to see for the task and responsibility which President Prodi has taken on. While each report deals with the aspects which concern each committee, there is a common element amongst the four: they all express a generally favourable opinion of the proposals for reform presented by the Commission in its White Paper, although at the same time they remain vigilant with regard to their implementation and development. With regard to the Committee on Budgetary Control, I am pleased to inform you that my report has been approved unanimously, apart from one abstention, and that we have been unanimous in stressing once again the need for a strong, independent, transparent and efficient Commission; in short, a genuine pillar for European integration. We have also been unanimous in stating that many of the shortcomings and irregularities that were condemned during the discharge for 1996 were due to the fact that previous Commissions had not managed to modernise their management and control systems and had not applied all of the legislation in force. In drawing up my report, I have been able to study not only the White Paper, but also the second report of the committee of independent experts and the resolution adopted by this Parliament on 19 January, proposed by Michiel van Hulten, on the work of the aforementioned committee of experts. The Committee on Budgetary Control and I myself are pleased to see that, in producing the White Paper, the Commission has largely taken its inspiration from the proposals of the independent experts and has taken account of many of the observations made by Parliament on 19 January. As the committee with responsibility for budgetary control, I highlight in the report approved by the committee the aspects of the reform concerning competence in this area. In this respect, we have fully supported the establishment of a true sense of responsibility amongst officials. This is the basis of the new philosophy for management of the Commission: each administrative unit will be expected to take responsibility for the regularity and legality of all its actions. The Directors-General will have responsibility for the internal control of their directorates-general, without in any way exempting the respective Commissioners from their own political responsibility with regard to the functioning of the services and that includes, where appropriate, the President of the Commission. The main task of the new internal auditing service, under your direct responsibility, Mr Kinnock, Vice-President with responsibility for reform, will be to analyse the functions and systems of internal control which exist within the Commission. This function is, as the Court of Auditors points out in its report 4/97, much broader and more general than the current function performed by  overall control. In this respect, I would like to remind you that on 5 October last our Parliament gave the green light to the amendment of Article 24(5) of the financial regulation currently in force. In that way Parliament put an end to what the Court of Auditors had been condemning since 1981 and which it reiterated in its report 4/97: a latent conflict which exists between the power to grant an approval – and hence to authorise an item of expenditure – and the task of assessing it soon after according to criteria of good financial management. This amendment makes sense in a transitional period until the adoption of the new financial regulation which, according to the recommendations of the committee of experts, is intended to establish a system of control, based not on  centralized control, but on , auditing. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the new system will prove to be more effective than the current one. The Court of Auditors, in its report 4/97, repeats its position with regard to the impact of financial control, which is not evenly balanced. Compared to the great efficiency that it demonstrates with regard to appropriations managed directly by the Commission, its weakness with regard to decentralised operational costs is notable. Evidence of this weakness can be found in the extremely limited number of refusals of approval, of authorisation, originating from the Commission. The Court of Auditors indicates in its report that it is not opposed to the removal of prior approval provided that it is replaced by other procedures, which offer guarantees that are at least equivalent, and can thereby involve parties other than the financial controller. This other party is specifically the internal auditing service, which will be completely independent. The Court of Auditors also says that, on the express condition that the role of the contractor...  I will end by saying that this is not a time for complacency, Mr President. We are not here to celebrate a victory. The fact that this Parliament is supporting the reform of the Commission should encourage it to shoulder its risks, its responsibility, as Mr Kinnock has promised, and also to get it right. They have the duty to get it right and to take risks, not to avoid them. – Mr President, this report is all part of the changeover from UCLAF to OLAF. As other speakers have said, we would like the transition to proceed more quickly. We need an independent OLAF able to operate efficiently. I must congratulate Herbert Bösch on his excellent report. He has certainly made the point, in the text presented to us, that the fight against fraud is not an element in partisan infighting or in the internal politics of Member States. Instead, he made it clear that we are all equally involved in uncovering fraud at its source and calling its instigators to account. All the parliamentary groups are united in wishing to recover the money and improve administrative checks. We do feel we are making progress in the fight against fraud. That is our message to the citizens and we must ensure it reaches them. True, the Nice Summit did not produce any response to our request for a European Public Prosecutor. Such a prosecutor would have been most helpful to us in uncovering this year’s major fraud, which involved the adulteration of butter. Incidentally, that not only concerns defrauding Community coffers. It is also an indication of how much more we still have to do regarding food safety. So, what we have before us today is a good report. I should like to reiterate that we are all determined to combat fraud and recover the money. I feel we should call on the Commission to let us know what it has in mind in the specific case of the European Prosecutor. Perhaps the opportunity missed at Nice could be retrieved through some specific proposals. The cooperation of national prosecutors is not enough. Just as it has been shown in some cases that the national authorities know how to coordinate their work, so it is necessary to have someone within the Commission able to take the lead. – Madam President, we in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and in the Group of the European People’s Party believe that enlargement is a worthy objective in itself. It must not therefore be used by the Council as a bargaining chip to obtain strategic positions which have nothing to do with the actual political process of enlarging Europe. It must not be a bargaining chip to obtain certain modifications of the agricultural policy or to resolve other problems, and I therefore congratulate the Spanish Presidency on having done such good work and I directly condemn those governments, with Socialist majorities, which are exploiting the enlargement procedure, which this Parliament and European society are very attached to, to obtain agreements on other issues which they have few reasons for, by trying to strengthen their case by making their position conditional. With regard to the Turco report, which examines how the Structural, Cohesion and ISPA Funds were spent in 2000, I must repeat once again that the internal cohesion policy, the regional policy, of the European Union must not be changed as a result of the fact that poorer countries are entering. The internal cohesion between the richest and poorest regions and countries must be maintained, regardless of the fact that ten countries about to enter are clearly poorer. I believe that more of the Community budget should be spent and it should be better spent, in that order, and we must continue to try to ensure that executing the Community budget is not an obstacle course. We must simplify the procedures and trust in the executors. – Mr President, thank you very much for your generosity, and thanks also to my fellow Member for his understanding and kindness. I would like to begin, not with the most important report, but by replying to the comments of Mr Kuhne which I really consider to be unfortunate. At the moment, the political groups – as you know – do not have a genuine regulation. My political group, and practically all the others, are complying with the existing regulations. Your political group has its way of organising its finances, as do all the others. Fifteen offices of this Parliament are devoted to the European Socialist Party, and a crowd of officials, who are paid from public funds, are dedicated exclusively to the work of one political party. Other political groups prefer to have their offices outside Parliament, and have their own officials and adopt totally legal financing formulae. Therefore, at a time when we are asking for a statute for the parties – because Europe needs not only European parliamentary groups, but also European political parties – at a time when there is a certain harmony amongst all the groups, I consider the references in his report to peculiar things to be unfortunate – as the chairman of our group, Mr Poettering, has correctly pointed out. Mr Kuhne, you know that that is not the case. We lack regulation. My political group, like all of them, is going to comply with the regulations and provide information when it is appropriate to do so. However, when free to do so, each group has managed its finances in the way they considered appropriate. I would like to highlight the work of Mrs Stauner in this extremely important report, but I would like to point out, briefly, that we are not trying to weaken the new Commission, on which we have placed so many hopes, as we have on the Commissioner responsible for the budget and for financial control, Mrs Schreyer. We are analysing a financial year of the last Commission, and we have asked the current Commission to diligently manage issues which were pending from the previous Commission. The proof that we are fundamentally satisfied with its work lies in the fact that we are going to propose the discharge, obviously with reserves, of the accounts for 1998. We believe that the Commission is taking its time. Logically, at the beginning it needs more time, but we hope that other decisions will be taken much more quickly. We also hope that the Interinstitutional Agreement which we have finally reached will improve our relations, so that we can provide each other with mutual support and build Europe more quickly. We also understand that you are immersed in a process of administrative reform, which in my opinion and in the opinion of other MEPs, is not ambitious enough: decisions are lacking and there are matters which it is not dealing with. It is not your direct responsibility, but you already know that we believe that a lot of funds are wasted as a result of this passive attitude, the lack of motivation amongst officials and the failure to take responsibility, because people are too concerned with controlling errors or seeking their own promotion. To end, I would like to say that we agree with the discharge of the accounts which the three reports refer to. . – Mr President, Commissioner, I am very happy to reiterate your closing words in the debate on subsidiarity or coordination. I agree with you, Commissioner, when you say that there is no contradiction between these two terms, and that they should both be perfectly achievable. Perhaps this debate, on the 11 stability plans presented by the countries participating in the euro and the four convergence plans, is a good time to review the harmonisation between the subsidiarity and coordination required by the introduction and future of the single currency. This, therefore, is the flip-side of the debate which we have just held on the report by Mr Katiforis, and we must firstly begin to think about the instrument. This is the first time that this Parliament has debated the 15 plans presented by the Member States. I suspect that, in subsequent versions, the report will not be a single whole, but rather a detailed study will have to be made of the solutions, the weak and strong points, which this Parliament detects in the economic policies proposed by the Member States. We are therefore going to ask for more detail in the plans which are submitted, in the structure of expenditure and also of income, paying particular attention to investments. We would ask that the projections they make in the medium and long term take account of different scenarios relating to the development of interest rates, demographic development and other variables affecting the stability of our accounts in the long term. We also ask in this regard – and I am returning to the debate on subsidiarity – for greater political commitment from the 15 national parliaments. We believe that this is a task which falls to everyone, and not just to the European Parliament. Some Member States have subjected the stability and convergence plans to internal debate in order to seek political support for this idea of jointly building economic unity, and we should ask the Member States who have not done so to debate these programmes in their parliaments in order to try, firstly, to persuade those states and parliaments to participate in this common task and, secondly, to provide political support for the commitments which are agreed to regarding the necessary coordination of economic policies. Turning to the report’s proposals to the House, I am very pleased to note that all of the budgetary objectives established in previous programmes have been met, and even exceeded. However, this cause for satisfaction is counter-balanced by the fact that, aside from the possible criticism that the objectives could perhaps have been more demanding and rigorous, we are seeing that the objectives have been achieved, not as a result of the interest and efforts of the Member States, but simply to factors such as the favourable development of interest rates or greater than expected tax revenue. We therefore believe that, although budgetary consolidation must continue to be a priority, the economic environment – which has improved a lot – must offer us the possibility of speeding up consolidation and, at the same time, undertaking structural reforms in the medium term. It is not acceptable for this relative economic boom to dissuade the Member States from making decisions – sometimes difficult decisions – on structural reforms. These include, firstly, labour reform, which we discussed earlier. It is clear that not all the states have implemented the labour reforms which we consider appropriate. The improved performance of the labour market – which is clear – has been based on satisfactory economic growth, and not all the Member States have made the rigorous reforms that they must make, more radical reforms, to resolve the unacceptable problem of the high rate of unemployment in the European countries in comparison to other countries and which is not only an economic blight but also, and above all, a personal and family blight which cannot be permitted in the modern Europe of the 21st Century. It is also crucial that we liberalise the telecommunications and energy markets, and not all countries are doing so in the same way. With regard to tax reform, we should welcome the reduction in the high level of taxes in France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain, and we should bear in mind that the high rate of unemployment often relates to the fact that we have high levels of tax. In the long-term reforms, we should also include the serious problem of population. In the programmes presented to us, we note that particular attention is given to the ageing of the population. Perhaps it is time that we insisted that Member States resolve the demographic problem at source, through a suitable approach to both tax revenue policies and social expenditure, in order to protect families with children. This is the way to tackle the problem at source, and not only its effects. This is the only way we will prevent the old Europe from becoming a decrepit Europe. –  Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Karlsson for the important work the Court of Auditors is doing, and I also thank him that this year the publication of the report has not been pre-empted by newspaper headlines based on biased leaks, which sow so much mistrust of the work of this serious and impartial Court and of the tasks this Parliament and the other institutions have to perform. I especially appreciate the impartiality of his report, in which he points out the faults and praises the progress; for instance, he praises the fact that the Commission is getting moving. I belong to a group of MEPs working on the reform; we have just been with President Prodi and have seen that he has personally taken on the development of the White Paper in accordance with many of the recommendations that have been received year after year from the Court over which Mr Karlsson so ably presides. It must be said that this is actually a process on paper which takes time to turn into action, but it is going along the right road. It is going along the road that you, this Parliament and the independent experts are indicating. Problems still lie ahead on this road, however, such as the overly-long transitional period laid down for the reform of the Financial Regulation. We are in a period that is bad for everyone, including those responsible for payments, in which we have an old system, a new system and an intermediate period in which there is a certain feeling of confusion. I should be grateful if the Court would issue its opinion on the reform of the Financial Regulation soon. Madam President, I must ask: where is the Council in all this? I think the Council is responsible for five sixths of Mr Karlsson’s report and for the spending it approves. Where is the Council? Right now, Madam President, I should like to stop talking and wait for someone from the Council to come here. Therefore, may I suggest that in the next debate on the presentation of the accounts, the Council should be present and intervene. I repeat that the part of the report I most value is the recognition that the Commission is getting moving; but the same cannot be said about the Council, whose importance lies not only in the spending figures. You say that you keep on drawing attention to serious and persistent weaknesses in Member States’ control and management systems, and you say that most of the errors occur in the main spending programmes managed by the Member States’ administrations. I believe that we, the members of this Parliament, will be able to point to and lay the blame on our own administrations if they do not meet their commitments, but you have to do us the favour of clearly indicating the States and the programmes. I am convinced that in order for the Community’s financial interests to be properly defended any management failures must have consequences in the budget and Parliament must be able to deny funds to a Member State for repeated breaches of spending control regulations. –  Mr President, many Europeans were awaiting this report to see when the hard core, the driving force which the Commission is supposed to be, will finally begin to function at a certain amount of speed. This is not the time to deal with details, since in the Committee on Budgetary Control, thanks to the proposal which we have made, we will have the opportunity to closely observe the work of Commissioner Kinnock. He tells us that he will respond effectively. Perhaps we will have our first opportunity to see whether this is the case in a month’s time when the Justice and Home Affairs Council takes place. I do not know whether or not you will have time to include in the agenda of that Council meeting some of the questions put forward in the report of the Committee of Independent Experts which I believe are supported by general consensus. There is no doubt that the fight against fraud should be one of the objectives which we aim for immediately. I believe that we should offer OLAF the necessary resources as soon as possible so that it can carry out its work efficiently, but it is nevertheless essential that budgetary control goes much further than the sixth part which is directly controlled by the Commission. We will have to pursue those 1,327 cases which in 1997 were included in the former UCLAF. The current legal framework is incoherent and incomplete. We will have to work, steadily and relentlessly, to remove that permanent suspicion of fraud which, unfortunately, engulfs the activities of the Community institutions. But I do not wish to dwell on these issues, since I agree that the enormous majority of people who work for Europe are competent and honest. It is perhaps not the resources lost through fraud or corruption which should worry us most but rather those lost through the absence of a personnel policy, as claimed by the Committee of Independent Experts. Those inefficiencies, those mistakes and that lack of motivation which affect the work of the people who work for the Commission must be, from our point of view, one of the principle areas of activity of the reform of the Commission. Chapter 6 of the report of the Committee of Independent Experts, which we have not had time to study in detail, demands absolute transparency. It demands it, perhaps, because we have never had it. There has certainly never been transparency in the policies of recruitment, promotion or mobility. We want a Commission which is strong and independent. Therefore, we want you to be prepared to say no when you are asked to carry out work for which you do not have the resources. You must not accept commitments which you are not able to fulfil effectively. In your hearing, Mr Kinnock, we heard that there are 500 posts, which have been authorised by Parliament, which are still vacant. Perhaps this was pressure? Distribution of power? Lack of transparency in recruitment procedures? It is essential to evaluate the merits of the personnel who work for the Commission, to have a genuine career policy. I have noticed that, amongst the 90 recommendations of the Independent Experts, some describe an Anglo-Saxon style administration, where more responsibility falls to managers. It is necessary to decentralise and clarify competences. Not everybody is responsible for everything, neither in the management carried out in the Member States, nor in the Regions nor in the Commission. Therefore, Mr Kinnock, time is running out. The European citizens cannot allow us to fail in this pursuit. Let us work steadily and relentlessly because, as I have said, we cannot continue to be a source of scandal for the citizens of Europe. This is not good for Europe and not good for any of us. . –  Mr President, in the extremely interesting debate that we have heard this morning following Mr Prodi’s presentation of the White Paper on governance, he said that the control exercised by this Parliament, including control over budgetary matters, should not be concerned with questions of detail but should check whether the instruments are achieving their objectives and should adopt more of a political approach and less of an accounting one. Perhaps this is why the Committee on Budgetary Control has made a few suggestions for the creation of an Aviation Safety Agency, such as, for example, that we again adopt the model of control used by the two agencies set up in 1975, which are Cedefop, in Thessaloniki and the Dublin Foundation. According to this model, granting discharge to the agencies was the responsibility of the European Parliament. Between 1990 and 1997, nine agencies were created, but it could be said that creating an external agency gives the Council carte blanche to do what it likes. This idea is not borne out by reality, however, because the agency set up to deal with the issue of Kosovo in Thessaloniki in 1999 is a return to the model according to which it is Parliament, at the behest of the Council, that gives discharge to the Director and the board of management. This is, I believe, in harmony with the form of governance that we are seeking to adopt on the Commission’s proposal and that would be beneficial to the Agency itself, because in this way, the external agency does not have to mean lesser control of Community funds, a control which is the responsibility of the European Parliament. We also emphasise, in the fourth amendment, the need to incorporate in its rules of procedure the requirement for periodical external assessments of the Agency. I must repeat that the external Agency will have freedom of action, but we would like to have an independent expert cast an eye over it from time to time to see whether the Agency is fulfilling the objective that has been proposed for it. –  Mr President, the European Parliament plays an undeniable leading role in the peace process in Central America. It is now time to talk about the recent situation in Guatemala, six years after the conclusion of the peace agreements, in 1996. The time has come for Parliament to add its voice to those of other human rights defenders, trade unionists and religious leaders working with the indigenous communities to ensure that these peace programmes move forwards and do not stagnate. It is vital that the Guatemalan government finalises the legislative reforms arising from the peace agreements, that the judicial authority consolidates its independence and its capacity to pursue and to prosecute those responsible for the wars and the breaches against human rights that have taken place before and after the peace agreements were concluded. For this reason, the European Parliament sends a message of support to the Guatemalan people and to their Government, to encourage them to continue in their struggle, to guarantee respect for human rights, the Rule of Law and the independence of the judiciary. It is vital that these agreements, which have been so successful not only in Guatemala but also in other countries in Central America, reach a satisfactory conclusion. This means that governments must commit themselves to continue pursuing and punishing criminals, which can only be done by respecting and strengthening the independence of the judiciary. This is this essence of the message of support that we want to send from Parliament to the Guatemalan people, to those who are fighting for their freedom and to their political authorities. – Mr President, I must talk about control issues, as I am sure Mrs Morgan will do. I would like to welcome her and congratulate her on recently becoming a mother. Mr Kinnock, there is a Spanish phrase which says, ‘the road to hell is paved with good intentions’. You have a very difficult task and I have the impression that, in order to progress from intentions to actions, you must put your foot down and take risks, as President Prodi promised us when he began his five-year mandate. There are issues of budgetary control which I would like you to expand on in your written reply. I remember that, a year ago, you told us that eighty officials were expected for the central auditing service to begin work in full in April on an evaluation of the management and control system. We do not know whether this is yet under way. We do not know whether centralised prior approval is yet under way insofar as a high degree of experience in the authorising bodies has been achieved. We do not know whether specific prior controls are operating, on the basis of a risk analysis and according to the wishes of the authorising officers. We have great doubts, Mr Kinnock, about the future of the financial regulation, which must be created urgently. It will not be your exclusive responsibility, but we are very unclear about this. We are worried. You are going to produce a new version. When will this be? What is happening with the Convention on the protection of the Community’s financial interests? What is happening with the helpdesk which you were going to set up so that the measures in the White Paper could be consulted by officials? I could go on and on. We have the impression that the task is enormous, that there is a timetable to be created. You know that you have our support. We want you to take risks. We will support you if you make a mistake, as we supported Mr Prodi when he told us about it, but perhaps we need someone to put their foot down and timescales to be respected and promises to become realities, Mr Kinnock. – Mr President, the internal reform of the Commission has begun. We welcome that! This is not the first attempt to turn the Commission into a world-class public service, but we, Mr Prodi, wish to believe in the sincerity and resolve of your promise to this House. For the moment we have a series of measures and a White Paper. You are examining it with the members of the Council and with the civil service unions and finally, this Parliament will offer its support and will cooperate with you in this great objective of making the European Commission the best administration in the world. Go for it! However, I would like to point out one fault in the document. It lacks an analysis of the reasons for the failure of the previous system, and Mr Kinnock should have carried it out because he is an expert in the field, having worked in the Commission for five years. For example, there previously were punitive measures or measures for assessing the merits of the civil servants, but, Mr Prodi, they were not used. The officials responsible, including the Commissioners, did not make use of these measures, of these recourses which existed before. Now that we are establishing new measures, how do we know they will be used? Only you know the answer to this secret. The lack of motivation amongst excellent civil servants is serious. We must take action and the example should come from above. The reform of the Commission, Mr Prodi, should not only protect the financial interests of the Community. Far more resources are lost through an ineffective and unmotivated administration. Furthermore, we also have to accept that officials who take responsibility and risks may make mistakes. You said in your speech that you prefer to make mistakes rather than fail to act. Go for it, Mr Prodi. Your task must be an historic task. You are not the first to try it. We hope that you succeed. – Mr President, I would like to start by protesting at the fact that this debate is being held at night. It is shameful that we have to debate this and other important matters at night. It is shameful. And no one can understand it, including myself. Mrs Theato has come to this night sitting despite being ill and I have left a dinner with the representatives of "", winners of this year’s Sajarov Prize. This situation has to change. Next I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report, which is so important and, contrary to what has been said, so necessary. Moreover, I think that her report is part of our new way of understanding what should be politically correct in the institutions, and that is transparency. In this morning’s debate on the European Council in Nice we criticised the fact that the meetings were held at night and behind closed doors. It would be good to know what goes on there and perhaps, if the doors were open, the Member States would behave differently. That is precisely the major contribution made by the Morgan report. Its aim is that in this whole process there should be transparency, that we should not beat about the bush, that fingers should be pointed and that it should be made clear that the services are doing things badly. For example, I would like to criticise the fact that, when the report of the Court of Auditors was presented, the Council was absent, as if it is not interested in this Parliament. I also think that it is worthy of criticism that the Council is not present at the meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control, which is precisely where the faults that arise in 80% of the budget, which the Council spends, are discussed. One day we will have to change this sort of absence of the ‘innocent hand’ of the Council, which is never guilty of anything. Mrs Schreyer, you have just mentioned the Council, saying that there was a Member State that opposed the creation of a European Prosecutor. It is time for the politically correct thing to be to say which Member State it is and to give its full name. This also happens in many reports. This very morning, for example, in the debate that we had in the Committee on Budgetary Control, we saw how the representative of the Commission, when we asked him to indicate the Member States that do things badly, answered: “Look, the monitoring of what the Member States do is done through sampling, and there is no reason to penalise the Member States whose irregularities have been revealed through sampling.” Well I do not care. They should say that, according to the sample, such and such a Member State is not doing things right. I would like to finish by saying that it is important for there to be monitoring of the approval of the accounts, and for me this is the most important thing, that is, that there is reason for amendment not only by the Commission but also by the Council. It is also important to include observations in the reports on the Member States about how they comply with or fail to comply with the conclusions on the approval of the accounts. I would like the Member States, at least the Presidency and the representatives of the Member States being discussed, to be present for debates in Plenary, and also in committee. – Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Watson for his work, laying out the role the European Union must play in the fight against terrorism. I would also like to thank the President of Parliament, Nicole Fontaine, for her personal attitude on opening this sitting in greeting the family of a victim of terrorism, the Councillor from the Union of the Navarrese People, José Javier Múgica, whose widow and three children were present in the Chamber and who have asked me to pass on their thanks to the whole House and to its President. This Parliament has managed to become a torchbearer in the European fight against terrorism. It was the first Chamber to produce a recommendation in writing that it was necessary to politically isolate political parties which do not condemn terrorism. And it has been this Parliament which has managed to gather more than 400 signatures of Members of this House in a public commitment to combat the terrorism of ETA. We are now discussing the Watson report, and in this regard I would like to stress the need for the Union to have a European search and arrest warrant which replaces the formal extradition procedure for terrorist crimes as soon as possible. Because terrorism, and specifically the terrorism of ETA, affects all the citizens of Europe, not only the victims, but even Members of this House. I regret that Mrs Dührkop is not present due to illness. She could have told us of how ETA deprived her of her husband, Senator Casas. My own wife and family have also been subject to three attacks, which cost the life of a policeman. And other Members could also speak of their suffering. Spain and other places in Europe suffer terrorism. We are not going to indulge in theorising, because we are aware that, as the Watson report proposes, we have to oblige the Member States to finally reach an agreement, because terrorism represents the greatest violation of human rights suffered by the European people. –  Madam President, the relentless escalation of terrorism is turning the fight against it into a priority objective of a number of policies, and, therefore, of the policy we want here in Parliament. Recent events, such as those in Bali, the Philippines and Israel, show the urgency of coordinated, joint action to eliminate this social scourge which attacks the most fundamental rights, such as life and democracy, the system of government that we have chosen for ourselves. Fortunately, we reached a swift agreement, and, ten days after the attacks on 11 September 2001, we had already signed a plan to combat terrorism jointly. Mr Vitorino and Mr Patten – who is not present – now is the time to come to this House, to tell us the problems relating to the development of this plan and identify those involved. We do not need a general opinion. We must go into detail and say which States are cooperating more or less than others, because this is a problem that we are also experiencing on our doorstep. Last Saturday, the citizens’ group , to which we awarded the Sakharov prize, organised a huge demonstration in San Sebastián for the freedom of Basque and Spanish citizens, so that each individual, whether nationalist or otherwise, might hold whatever political beliefs they wish. Last Tuesday, we interrupted the Plenary to condemn the attack in which a sergeant in the Spanish Civil Guard, Juan Carlos Beiro, died in Leiza (Navarre). This is a priority objective, which should encourage all European citizens to call on you to come here to provide explanations, and the Council to identify those States which are fulfilling their duties, implementing the action plan we implemented on 21 September 2001, and those which are not. If we do not identify who is fulfilling their duties to the greatest and the least extent, we will not be serving our electorate nor defending democracy with democracy. –  Mr President, on 31 March, in the space of two hours, 224 litres/m2 of rain fell on Santa Cruz de Tenerife, in the Canary Islands; a violent downpour which caused a great deal of destruction. Such climate changes were also seen in the Autonomous Community of Valencia, causing a great deal of destruction to districts such as la Marina and la Safor. The local community, European neighbours, the fire brigade, medical services, the police, the regional government and the Spanish Government all lent their support. I think that Parliament needs to be sensitive to this loss of both human life and over 400 homes, and ask the Commission to provide economic assistance, to provide European support for the Canary Islands and the Autonomous Community of Valencia, which have both suffered the devastating effects of the climate change that has been affecting the Mediterranean region recently and, on this particular occasion, the Canary Islands. Therefore, we would ask the Commission to show solidarity and we ask the Commissioner what can be done in this regard. For example, large infrastructures under development in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, created under the Urban programme, have been destroyed, and they need to be rebuilt. Budgets will clearly have to be revised because everything that had been done – in this case using Community contributions – has been lost. We have the sad task of having to pass on our sincere condolences to the families of victims who died in the floods and of all those who were injured but next, and in order to provide for all eventualities, we also need to adopt the appropriate means to demonstrate, in real figures from the budget, the solidarity of all Europeans with the suffering caused to families, goods and infrastructures in these two Spanish regions. ,. –  Mr President, I should like to begin by praising the fine work done by my colleague, Salvador Garriga Polledo, in the report he is presenting on own resources, a subject he has been following very closely for some time. The Community budget comes, in part, from the traditional own resources raised by the Member States’ customs services and therefore the principal role of Community legislation on guarantees and securities is to protect the financial interests of the Community. The defects in the procedures applicable to the security and guarantee system mean precisely that the corresponding Community revenue is not collected and has to be covered by additional GNP contributions from the Member States. Therefore, I understand that interest should be levied on traders who effectively use unauthorised credit in their deferment accounts as part of release for free circulation operations. The Garriga Polledo report deals with cases under Member State responsibility in which a failure to enforce Community legislation on securities and guarantees harms the Community’s interests. According to the Court of Auditors, in cases of mandatory securities the basic principle is that the customs authorities should fix the security at a level equal to the precise amount of the customs debt where this can be established with certainty, or if not, the maximum amount, as estimated by the customs authorities, of the customs debts which have been, or may be, incurred. In practice, it is the security or guarantee body that assesses the risks of the operation. In order for these risks to be assessed, the guarantee should be fixed at the closest possible level to the customs debt for which the security or guarantee is provided. If these rules were observed, the pertinent financial interests would be fully protected. A number of difficulties arise in this and I shall highlight half a dozen: First of all, there are no reliable statistics on the volume of guarantees currently granted. The data on these securities and guarantees, which are clearly identified in accounting and legal terms, certainly exists in the customs accounting departments of Member States, but there are no procedures to enable it to be collated and known at Community level. Secondly, some customs authorities cannot – I prefer to think this rather than that they do not collaborate – effectively monitor observance of the requirements set out in Community legislation on guarantees because of failures in their accountancy operating or computer systems and procedures. I must stress the need for the New Computerised Transit System (NCTS) to come into operation soon in all the Member States and the countries associated with the common transit system. It is clear that the fulfilment of Community securities will depend, to a large extent, on the development of all the operations of the NCTS. To solve the problem of the high level of undischarged transit operations, we should emphasise the importance of operational measures and, again, the need for swift development of this new system. With the multiple guarantee certificate system and the NCTS we shall achieve centralisation and greater administrative clarity. Thirdly, incomplete declarations must be mentioned. At the end of the periods allowed under Community rules the Member States should transfer the duties covered by a guarantee which are not contested into ‘A’ accounts. Fourthly, the need for a change to Community customs legislation in order to ensure that the securities which guarantee the right to credit should also guarantee the automatic payments made by the customs offices after release of goods. Fifthly, the large number of cases reported by the Court of Auditors in which the amounts owed to the Community budget have not been paid or received with the relevant late payment interest. Lastly, I should like to mention the difficulties giving rise to the failure to collect the considerable amounts of customs duties and other taxes arising from TIR operations, which are attributable to ineffective implementation of existing mechanisms and a lack of monitoring of transit operations. To conclude, Mr President, I want to stress that the Commission must study the various problems raised and, in particular, review the computer system in order to take into account the interest owed in this respect to the Community budget by the Member States. –  Mr President, although I welcome the Court of Auditors’ report, which is extremely useful and which this Chamber should support, because in so doing, we will be supporting Europe as a whole, I cannot avoid mentioning the unease caused by the fact that some of the media have recently leaked partial and biased versions of the report. Mr Karlsson, this is something that apart from causing our citizens, officials and institutions unnecessary harm, gives the impression that the Court of Auditors is a political body that is accountable to the electors through public opinion.  These leaks, Mr Karlsson, do not occur in the great majority of the Courts of Auditors in the Member States or in the European regions. Therefore, it should not be impossible for you to prevent them either.  It shows a lack of respect for this House and for yourselves, because it shows that those whose duty it is to monitor are not actually monitoring the process itself.  Therefore, Mr Karlsson, if these leaks occur again, my group will demand a reform that goes beyond merely postponing this debate.  Secondly, I would like to say that the problem of the irregularities and of the way the budget has been misused is not a geographical problem, but one that cuts across all divisions. Here there is no North, South, East or West. There are no rich countries or poor countries. What we have here is simply a problem of the inadequacy and the misinterpretation of national and Community legislation.  I would like the countries who bear the burden of the effort towards internal economic and social cohesion not to use this kind of argument as, of those countries, it is the countries that receive funds from the European Union that have the most to gain from the effectiveness of this effort.  Finally, I would like to stress the fact that the Commission still intends – as the report that you have presented to us states – to use the degree of use of the financial credits allocated in the annual budget as the main gauge of the success of their financial management. What the Commission must in fact do is to measure its success by the degree to which it manages to achieve the objectives that it has been given, at the lowest cost. This change of philosophy is what, by supporting the report that you have presented, we demand of the reform that President Prodi promised this Parliament he would carry out. .  Mr President, there are many values dear to the European Union as a whole. Solidarity is one of these. It was thanks to solidarity that the principle of cohesion came to be enshrined in our treaties. According to this principle it is not possible to take any decision that would reinforce the position of stronger citizens, states or regions at the expense of weaker ones. This principle of cohesion has gained further relevance in the context of enlargement. It is worth stating at the outset that the whole House is of the opinion that Objective 1 should remain unchanged, and that regions due to lose Objective 1 status as a result of enlargement should not lose their aid. If these regions were to be deprived of their aid they would be losing out in order to make aid available to the new Member States. Nobody wants that to happen. The statistical effect should not therefore be taken into account so as to retain Objective 1 as it stood. We must all help to support the incoming countries, in a spirit of solidarity. We are currently witnessing a very significant change. Commissioner Barnier is well aware of it. In the draft of the new constitution there are references to economic, social and territorial cohesion. Consequently the question arises as to whether there will be a territorial policy or not. To put this another way, it is necessary to consider whether citizens resident in areas of low population density, mountain or island regions, and who therefore experience difficulty in competing with other Europeans on equal terms are to be covered by a Community territorial policy, regardless of their income. The report I am presenting states that this should be the case. It argues that citizens resident in such areas ought to receive Community aid. This is indeed significant. It is important to bear in mind that when a farmer receives support under the common agricultural policy, that farmer is not required to declare his or her income. Similarly, when a company is awarded aid for research and development it is not required to declare its assets. It is all quite straightforward. The policy on research and development is in place, and so is the common agricultural policy. Aid is granted according to certain regulations. The same should apply to territories. It follows that territories should receive aid regardless of whether they are above or below a specific GDP threshold. I trust this will be the case. Our report on the preparatory work of the Convention is unambiguous. In it we state that policy must not be merely economic, dealing with money. Neither should it be simply a policy on cohesion, intent on avoiding exclusion. It needs to be a policy on territorial cohesion. Mountain regions, regions with low population density and island regions must receive specific aid. I am confident that the Council, the Commission and the Commissioner will heed the report by this House rather than the report by Mr Sapir. – Mr President, with regard to this resolution, which has received the consensus of all the groups, I would like to mention the last section, which refers to the need for effectiveness of the economic aid which, on this occasion, we are going to send to El Salvador, that very needy country. I have just spoken to the office responsible for humanitarian aid in Nicaragua and I would like to communicate to this House, and to the Commissioner, the great concern of all those self-sacrificing people who, today, are working on emergency aid, and who, tomorrow, will be involved in cooperation work, and the concern of the Spanish and international media about the fact that we have yet to send the promised economic aid following hurricane Mitch, when we are now facing the next tragic event. Members of the Commission, let us see if, this time, we can make it on time. I am saying this not only as a member of the Delegation for Relations with the Countries of Central America and Mexico, but also as coordinating spokesman of the Group of the European People’s Party and European Democrats in the Committee on Budgetary Control. To spend so late is to throw money away. Money must be spent on time and the officials – not only those in El Salvador, but also those in Brussels – will have to assume their responsibilities. Mr Kinnock’s reform must serve some purpose. Let us see whether or not, this time, the aid to alleviate the consequences of the earthquake arrive before another tragic event strikes this sister country. To be effective, aid must arrive at the right time. Otherwise, there will be so many people working with no compensation in those countries, so many people waiting, so many administrative costs, and for what? If we cannot do it any other way, let us send aid by means of the Member States. We already give money to the UN – to the UNHCR – we are the main contributors, and they only fly the United Nations flag. So, although it does not look good, let us do it by means of Spain or Austria, or under two flags, but the emergency aid, and especially the cooperation aid, must arrive. Let us not make fools of ourselves again. – Mr Prodi, you are able to represent the aspiration to carry out what this House has been demanding for a long time. I was captivated by your comments to this Parliament when you said that you were going to act, that you were not going to be afraid of making mistakes, that you would prefer to get things right but that, if by taking decisions, you make mistakes, you would run the risk of making those mistakes. Congratulations. These are good intentions which we hope to see shortly reflected in deeds. In the Commission on Budgetary Control, the members of the Group of the European People’s Party are primarily concerned with the need to be honest. The Committee of Independent Experts says that OLAF must be given the necessary resources to put an end to this aura of corruption which brought about the downfall of the former Commission. But I believe that we must go further. We must soon adopt a genuine personnel policy which will ensure that those who work in the Commission – on whose successes and failures we depend so much – may work with a personnel policy which values merit. I asked Mr Kinnock whether those 500 or so vacant posts in the Commission were going to be filled. If you lack resources, why do you not fill the posts which this Parliament has authorised? We want to see action soon. In a month’s time, the Council on Home Affairs will take place. This could be the moment to introduce those measures which the Committee of Independent Experts proposes, and which on the whole are common sense measures which should have been carried out long ago. This Parliament demanded some of them a long time ago. Are you, Mr Prodi, ready to include those measures which will be dealt with in Helsinki? We want to see facts because time is at a premium, Mr Prodi. If tomorrow you receive the approval of this House – and I hope this is the case – you have a huge job to do on behalf of all the citizens of Europe. Make haste, Mr Prodi. –  Mr President, I agree that the English version is the authentic one, and with regard to Mr Izquierdo’s last statement I must say that for us ‘’ [competent authorities] and ‘’ [controlling authorities] is still the same thing, in both cases they are the Autonomous Communities, but if the English version speaks of ‘competent authorities’ we agree it should be so. – Mr President, I would first of all like to mention the Council’s absence from this debate, which our committee chairperson, Mrs Theato, has pointed out very effectively. It is unacceptable that in this debate, in which we are going to talk about the Council, that that very Council is not represented. Here we have our Secretary-General of Parliament, and here we have the Commissioner, who represents the Commission, but where is the Council? I understand that this debate is taking place in parallel with a budgetary debate in Sweden and perhaps the Swedish Presidency has little to do with the exercise in question, but I believe that the Council also has a Secretary-General. Mr Solana always tells us that he is not only Mr CFSP but also the Secretary-General of the Council. Then he should come. Or he should appoint a Mr CFSP so that he can be here and listen to what we have to say. His absence is unacceptable and I would ask you, Mr President, to communicate to Mr Solana, Secretary-General of the Council, that somebody should be here representing the Council, whether or not that duty falls to the Swedish Presidency. Secondly, I would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs and also Mr Blak – our good friend Freddy Blak – because he, as a good cyclist and an admirer of the five-times champion Induráin – my compatriot – has been able to produce a successful report and employ great teamwork, given that his report has received a broad consensus in committee. I agree with the report, which is serious, demanding and tough, and I also agree with the final section in which it discharges the budget, because, as has been said here from many different quarters, the Commission is making great efforts to improve things. And also, in this 1999 financial year which, as Mr Heaton-Harris pointed out, has been rather unusual, an interregnum, the facts demonstrate that it is making improvements in the supervision of financial management and also in personnel policy. However, I must say that, in my humble opinion, it is doing so very slowly and this creates insecurities and examples of improvisation and also creates a lack of motivation amongst staff. I believe that you should move up a gear and carry out this very promising reform more quickly and more ambitiously because I very much fear that the reform is turning out, in almost all respects, to be unambitious and not the type of reform that was initially intended. – Mr President, I also wish to congratulate Mr van Hulten on this first piece of work which he is presenting to the House. I am sure that it will serve, amongst other things, to make his second report more flexible and for him to step up efforts to find a consensus amongst the groups. At this stage, there can be no delay in the process of reforming the Commission, demanded by our citizens. This Parliament has often heard the desire to reform the Commission expressed, even by its Presidents. It now appears that this desire is more serious. After the resignation of a Commission and after a Committee of Experts has listed an almost endless number of deficiencies, it makes sense that Mr Prodi should have promised, on 14 September, to present this Parliament with a complete plan for reform by February. This Parliament anxiously awaits this complete reform programme. The report that we are debating today intends to give political force to many of the recommendations of the Committee of Experts commissioned by this Parliament. Mr Prodi said he would act anyway, that he preferred to get things right, but that fear of not getting things right would not prevent him from acting. We therefore ask that his programme be a bold one and, if it is, I can assure him that he will have the support of this House in the reform process. We want a strong Commission, which can act in an independent and neutral manner, but with political sense. Commissioners should not be considered senior officials but rather politicians in office. Therefore, the report allows them to be members of political parties and to be members of political bodies affiliated to their parties. Perhaps the reference to the posts is imprecise. I do not know your exact view in this respect, Mr Kinnock, but it is clear that we want Commissioners who are politically strong and politically committed. We want a structure which allows every Euro to be spent effectively, and our accounts demonstrate that this is not happening at present. Therefore, Commissioner, we ask Mr Prodi to present us with a bold programme, and he will find that he has problems with those bodies who feel that their status quo is under threat, but not with this Parliament, which expects profound and daring changes. – Mr President, Commissioner, we are dealing with the first report sent to us by OLAF and I would like to thank Mr Bösch for the excellent work he has presented to us. The most interesting parts of his work are surely those which refer to the subject of the report, that is to say 1998, and OLAF, the body which is presenting its first piece of work. I agree that this report perhaps prejudges certain aspects which should be subject to further debates in the Committee on Budgetary Control and in this House, but I would like to highlight the positive aspects of its contribution. With reference to 1998, I believe that we should recognise that, after having intensified the task of control, which should be initiated by Parliament and which OLAF carries out, the number of cases of fraud and irregularities has stabilised. Without relaxing our efforts to control expenditure – of which we have shown signs in the past – we can see that this stabilisation has been the result of an increase in control. We should therefore be pleased about this and hope that this work continues, so that cases of fraud can be reduced rather than merely stabilised. It is clear that, in fundamental fraud, there are discrepancies between what the Court of Auditors says and what OLAF says. In OLAF’s judgement, it appears that it is not in the Structural Funds that fraud and bad management prevail. It is other expenditure that we should be concerned about. In any event, returning to OLAF, by means of this report, we should, in my view, ask for OLAF to be provided as soon as possible with the officials which have been allocated to it. However, I think it is very important that, in this first stage – precisely because we are interested in control – we do not increase OLAF’s scope of activity so soon after it has begun its work. I understand that there are and there will be – although we hope that this is not the case – great problems with the counterfeiting of currency, trademarks or VAT. It is essential that we allow OLAF to continue to pursue its scope of activity little by little and that we expand its role at a later date. Finally, we should not duplicate responsibilities. In order to use resources correctly, one body should be responsible for each issue and we should not have a situation where everybody is responsible for everything. I therefore believe that we should clearly separate objectives and not allow confusion to reign. At the end of the day "he that too much embraceth, holds little", as we say in Spain, so if we want to manage control, we cannot all have the same objective. – Mr President, I welcome the two Commissioners who are most involved in the development of the budget, and I have no doubt that President Prodi will be present at the debate that will take place in two months time. Beginning with the most important discharge, the discharge of the Commission’s accounts – in political terms, the most relevant and, in terms of quantity, the most significant – we are aware that your responsibility in terms of expenses is limited and that a majority of the responsibility in the field of expenses lies with the Member States. It is important that you try to become, firstly, an example for the Member States to follow and that, therefore, you understand that we demand more of you, if possible; and one day we will have to start to talk very seriously about these cases which are always detected in the Council rather than in the Commission. Furthermore I would like you to look at Mrs Stauner’s report from the most positive point of view possible. All the groups have reached an agreement to raise 17 questions in relation to certain cases. They are not the only ones. We could have mentioned other problems arising from the TACIS or PHARE programmes. After the crisis of the previous Commission, which you have begun to deal with, what we want – because we believe in your intentions and we want a strong and independent Commission and we are therefore giving you time – is for you to give us a positive response to certain very specific cases. I can assure you that you will be able to reply in the affirmative to each of the cases which we are putting to you. Therefore, between now and the summer, we could hold a sitting for the purposes of discharging the accounts. Not only are we as interested as you in the discharge of the accounts, but in fact we are more so. I would therefore like you to study the report which has been presented by Mrs Stauner with the broad consensus of the Groups. This is a political debate, and you must understand that we need you to act. Documents must not disappear. You must do something, irrespective of the fact that I want us to reach an agreement soon on the way we will have to deal with the documents you call confidential. As rapporteur for the 1999 Commission budget, I would love to be able to do my work in the clear knowledge of which documents we have access to and which we do not and why. I will give you an additional piece of information. This debate must not concentrate excessively on the accounting issues. As you can see in this budget, this is a political debate which goes beyond a strict examination of what you have done with regard to the 1998 budget. It is a general debate. We will also have to reach a framework agreement on how we can include in this debate – which is becoming increasingly important – not only accounting issues but also issues from other years relating to expenditure or management. You know that an unknown amount of money is lost through fraud or misappropriation. You are facing a great challenge, because even more resources are lost through a lack of motivation, that virus which has infected the entire administration of the Commission and which you must eradicate. More resources are lost through lack of motivation than through misappropriation. This is a quality issue which will also have to be increasingly discussed in the context of this debate. I will refer finally to the European Parliament’s budget, and I would like to reply to those people who say that, since we are supposedly tough and demanding with you, we must also be so with regard to our own institution. Of course we must. However we must not compare separate issues. For example, the auditor has not detected any irregularity in Parliament’s budget. We must therefore be prudent and fair and try to treat everyone as they deserve. The same must be demanded of Parliament as of all the others, but this is our House, we have more information and we can therefore take a different approach when it comes to proposing, as the Kuhne report does, a conditional discharge and not a postponement of the discharge. I will end by saying that you can reply to the 17 questions we have raised. We want you to do so, and we understand that in that way we can support you so that you, who have just joined this Commission, can really control your house. ‘Take the bull by the horns’ – as we say in Spain – and we will be able to achieve a discharge for this year on the part of the majority of the Groups in this House before the summer. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I am not going to talk to you about the huge numbers that you deal with. We all know that, of the 1.27%, 1.14% is committed and approximately 1% is spent. But we always blame the Member States for this and say that they commit more than they are then able to spend. I am going to ask you a very specific question about a programme that falls within the sole and exclusive competence of the Commission, which is the LIFE programme. The LIFE programme, which was allocated around EUR 100 million last year, committed EUR 20 million of its funds, despite having more than enough projects, which had been carefully evaluated and classified, for the programme to have been able to commit all EUR 100 million. This year, in which you will be assessing this programme – if you have not already done so, because it was due to be assessed any time now – is the Commission going to do the same? What are you going to do to ensure that the Commission allocates 100% of its appropriations and that, furthermore, it keeps some projects in reserve, since these programmes reached the normal level of implementation that you mentioned, of 70% or 80%, which is then spent within the Commission? Commissioner, the Commission alone is responsible for this, not the Members States. Mr President, Commissioner, we welcome this proposal for a directive for several reasons, one of which is the extension of its scope. It now encompasses not only wood production but also other forest objectives such as cork and the protection of genetic resources. We should also congratulate ourselves because it now identifies different categories and encourages the protection given by reforestation and not just wood production. It allows maximum variability from the genetic viewpoint, thereby guaranteeing adaptation. In the main the proposal responds to the differing needs of the Member States and includes the principle of subsidiarity. The accession of the Nordic and Mediterranean countries to the European Union is the main reason for updating the current directive which regulates the marketing of forest plants and seeds and which has not been substantially amended since 1975. The text of the directive coincides on the basic aspects of objective, number of categories, definitions of basic materials and so on with the world’s other main system of marketing forest reproductive material, namely the OECD. Work has been carried out in recent years to update this system and an improved text is now pending approval by the Council. Coherence between these texts can only assist the marketing of these materials. I must also congratulate Mr Pesälä on his report. I agree that the date set for the entry into force of the directive cannot be 1 January 2000 but must be postponed by at least three years to give the Member States time to comply with the directive. Other amendments by other Members, such as those tabled by Mrs Schierhuber, must also be welcomed. They include an amendment on the strengthening of the control of trade flows by an official certificate of origin. However, there is one very important point which we must consider. The explanatory statement specified that the external quality of materials was guaranteed, yet point (d) of Annex VII deals with this in a very general manner. This is not a trivial issue. Plant quality is essential in the Mediterranean environment where reforestation is carried out under very difficult conditions. Experience has taught us that plants of certain sizes cannot survive in a particular environment. This is true in many areas of southern Europe where the drought conditions are extreme. In order to assist their establishment, this means using container-grown plants with good root systems, whereas in other countries plants without any roots can successfully grow. The external quality of plants has a big impact, not only on the percentage which survive, which can range from 20% to 85%, but also on their future development in the extremely harsh conditions of their transfer to this climate. External quality is one of the factors which determines the quality of the woodland of the future. A lack of regulation of the external quality of plants may therefore cause very serious problems as this will allow all sizes of plant to be placed on the market. You should bear in mind that some Member States already have laws on this subject. It is in the interests of the whole European environment to ensure that plantations are correctly established so that a large proportion do not fail. The plants must be suitable and adaptable because, unfortunately, in many corners of the European Union, you cannot plant what you want, only what is practical. To ensure that adequate consideration is given to this unresolved problem in the text of the proposal, the Council is trying to reach agreement on the incorporation of a new point 7. This will contain the external characteristics which must be satisfied, for their marketing in the Mediterranean areas of the Community, by the forest species best adapted to the difficult soil and climate conditions of these areas. I applaud and encourage this solution to which I hope the European Commission will agree. –  Mr President, farming is an economic activity that depends on biological processes and which accounts for the use of much of the Community’s natural resources. For this reason, it must play a double-edged and central role in the conservation of biodiversity: first, by consolidating farming practices that are compatible with the environment and, secondly, by ensuring the survival of viable farms and systems of production throughout the territory of the European Union. Both the relentless intensification of farming and the fact that farmers are leaving the industry, with the consequent decline of rural areas, are having a devastating effect on biodiversity. A Community strategy for biodiversity must guarantee a method of farming that is more sustainable, in the broadest sense of the word, and which, in addition to the biological aspects, incorporates economic and social requirements and, ultimately, the survival of the rural world. Furthermore, maintaining this sustainable form of farming is a prerequisite for the European agricultural model, which is based on the protection of multifunctionality in agriculture, as the Council and the European Parliament have reiterated in numerous resolutions. The CAP is a useful instrument for biodiversity, as are the resolutions of the Earth Summit adopted at the Helsinki and Gothenburg Councils. On this basis it would be a mistake to confine the protection of biodiversity within the narrow limits of the CAP's second pillar and, more specifically, within agri-environmental programmes – designed to encourage the extensification of organic farming, the preservation of native species, the protection of natural habitats, etc. – for two reasons: firstly, because the second pillar of the CAP accounts for only 10% of the agricultural budget and, secondly, because although agri-environmental programmes encompass 20% of the EU's farmland, they have been implemented very unevenly and these days they are restricted almost entirely to the least productive areas of five Member States. This state of affairs is aggravated by the fact that there has been insufficient insistence upon environmental protection requirements in respect of market aid, and this has generally resulted in the setting of excessively low standards. Therefore, we should extend eco-conditionality and encourage more active use of the agricultural market policy mechanisms designed to protect the environment and biodiversity. We must support these requirements in our legislation on food quality, plant-health products, seeds and genetic resources. It is crucial that we strengthen the financial element of the CAP’s second pillar as well as making a distinction between its measures for socio-rural development and its agri-environmental measures. We are facing a major challenge, which is to consolidate Community agricultural policies and to draw them together so that they work in parallel to preserve biodiversity. – Mr President, Commissioner, we are discussing a Commission proposal on the reform of the COM on flax and hemp in two respects. Firstly, the Commission is explaining the need for the reform in terms of an increase in budgetary cost. I do not believe that that is the best way to try to justify the need for a reform, although I agree that it is needed. Amongst the objectives which this reform should have, as well as simplifying and updating the regulations, is also improving control, which is something we always forget about later on. The Commission proposal offers a good, coherent and precise analysis of the sector in the European Union. It explains the importance of flax and hemp production from both an economic and an ecological point of view. However, it seems to me that the Commission’s considerations with regard to hemp fibre and short-fibre flax are not very realistic, either as regards its future viability or its range of uses. However, the thing that seems least appropriate to me is the proposal on processing aid. In this case I would like to draw your attention to the increasing number of uses for this type of fibre, as several speakers have already pointed out. If we were to follow that route, the European Union, which already falls short in terms of using this type of fibre, would cease to use it altogether, at least in some countries. Today I read in one of my country’s newspapers that one of the autonomous regions has abandoned more than 95% of its cultivation of short-fibre flax. These were the words of the local Minister for Agriculture for that region. This type of situation will become inevitable if this amendment is put into practice. With regard to payment for processing, I cannot agree with the Commission’s proposal, either in terms of the distinction between short- and long-fibre flax or its proposals for hemp. It appears to me that they have not made any precise calculation to justify the different amounts for the premiums. Neither does there appear to be any precise calculation to justify the maximum guaranteed quantities, either at European level or on the different national levels. Consequently, these quantities are going to hinder development in the European Union with regard to short- and long-fibre flax and hemp. In addition, it also seems to me to be problematic to apply these regulations during this, the 2000-2001 season, since we are already at a late stage. I believe that Mrs Schierhuber’s proposal is a balanced one. It has been approved by a majority in the Committee on Agriculture and we should adopt it as a basic regulation. – Commissioner, you told us that repair costs more than prevention. That is preaching to the converted. Prevention is precisely what we are talking about here. On presenting , the Commission is reducing its economic contribution from EUR 18 million to EUR 13 million, saying that the missing 5 million has been transferred to the Regulation on Rural Development; but in the end it has had to tell us that this transfer has not taken place, which leads us to think that the money has been lost along the way. As Mr Martin and many of my colleagues have said, and I am not going to repeat it, from a political point of view it is not acceptable that the budget set for the only regulation dedicated exclusively to the protection of forests, to pollution and to fires is being reduced by EUR 5 million, and to say that we are now going to combat fires, leaving out prevention, we are going to study pollution, increase biodiversity and also study carbon. We cannot do many more things with much less money, because 5 million out of EUR 18 million is a very significant percentage. I would prefer it if we did not have to talk about or lament or express solidarity with the families of the people lost in these fires, nor the landscapes, homes and everything else that has disappeared, but I believe it is a miserly policy on the part of the Commissioner responsible for the environment to try to reduce the only funds we have had and to say that they have been transferred to rural development when, firstly, the countries have not had any opportunity to introduce these funds into their programmes and, secondly, the funds are not even in rural development. Thank you, Commissioner. I would ask you to communicate what I have said to Commissioner Wallström, so that at second reading we can approve the amendments which Parliament has already approved. –  I would like to ask the Commission to confirm whether its position on South Africa is the same now as it was when the Commission presented it to Parliament, as I understand that there is some discrepancy. –  Mr President, I am intervening to ask the House’s services to arrange for an error that has occurred to be rectified and for the term ‘woodland ecosystems’, used in one of the approved amendments, to be replaced by the term ‘woodland’. I would ask for this change to be made, noted and taken into account. I would also request, above all of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – who are not at present listening – that attention be paid to Amendment No 41, which has been corrected. We must vote against this amendment, or else our own amendment will fail. . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council has presented the amendment of two regulations, Regulation (EC) No 3528/86 on the protection of the Community’s forests against atmospheric pollution and Regulation (EC) No 2158/92 on the protection of the Community’s forests against fire, by means of two regulations, 307 and 308 of 1997, on the basis of Article 43 of the former Treaty. Parliament queried the regulations with the European Court of Justice on 30 April 1997, and this was resolved on 25 April 1999. The judgement of the Court (joint cases C-164/97 and C-165/97) repealed both Regulations and stated that the Council should have used the former Article 130s, now Article 175 of the Treaty as the sole legal basis, but the effects of the repeal were suspended to enable the Council to adopt new Regulations with the same aim within a reasonable time period. The European Commission and the Member States committed themselves, on an international level, at the Ministerial Conferences on the protection of the forests in Helsinki, in 1993, and Strasbourg, in 1990, to the continuous monitoring of the damage suffered by the forests. Everybody is aware of the important role played by the forests in all respects, both economic as well as ecological and social, and of their role in relation to soil protection, climate, water and flora and fauna, creating balances which are essential to the development of sustainable agriculture and for the management of rural areas. The Member States have established networks of systematic monitoring and observation posts for intensive and continuous monitoring of the forest ecosystems. These studies require long periods of implementation and their results depend, according to the improvements in the knowledge of the cause-effect relationships between the changes suffered by forest ecosystems and the factors which affect them, on carrying out this work of monitoring, prevention and study over a longer period. With regard to fires, work is underway into their causes, prevention measures and the monitoring of the forests. As for pollution, work is being done on the establishment of observation networks, on carrying out a periodic inventory of the damage by means of a single methodology, intensive and continuous monitoring of the forest ecosystems and the implementation, by means of pilot projects, of methods of conservation and restoration of the forests affected. Furthermore, the Member States must carry out a periodic assessment. In the proposal approved unanimously in the Environment Committee, minor amendments are introduced which I would ask the Commission to take into account, since this would prevent us from extending the procedure. This proposal asks that the Commission be assisted by a standing committee on forests, as it is in many other areas; that it present an analysis of the application of this regulation with regard to its ecological, economic and social aspects, as well as a cost-benefit evaluation; that an amendment be included on the Mediterranean forests as a specific ecosystem for the southern countries and because of its importance in combating desertification and erosion. With regard to the budget for implementation, I have a reasonable doubt: for the previous period of these regulations, the Commission proposed EUR 40 million to fight pollution, for the five years, and EUR 70 million for fire prevention. Now, for the next five years, the Commission proposes 34 million to fight pollution and 50 for fire prevention. It has just reduced the amount by 6 million for the fight against pollution and 20 million for the prevention of fires, without taking account of the rise in the cost of living index or the incorporation of new countries, Austria, Sweden and Finland, which almost double the area of forest in the Union. Therefore, our proposal would be to increase that budget to 44 million and 77 million for pollution and fires respectively. I would ask the President, since Mr Cunha is not present, to allow me to use his two minutes, as he told me previously. Here we have a proposal by the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets is once again presenting amendments in which it wants no kind of notification to appear with regard to the budget for implementation. I believe that the Committee on Budgets is trying to evade the codecision procedure, and I would propose to this House, and also to the Commission, that their amendments not be taken into account... – Mr President, Commissioner, it is now a year since the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease began its investigations in order to provide solutions and make proposals for the future in relation to this problem which, as well as causing serious economic damage to the European cattle sector, caused significant moral damage to all cattle breeders and had a great impact on society in general. We all remember the great number of animals which had to be culled following the outbreak last year which seriously affected the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. And the main task of this committee was to prevent situations such as that caused by this disease from reoccurring in Europe. During this year of intense work, the committee has listened to the opinions of dozens of experts in all fields, from economic to veterinary, dealing with logistical and political aspects, Community and international legislation, as well as tangential aspects such as tourism, goods transport, emotional aspects, etc. Many of the people invited to the committee occupied very important posts during the management of the last outbreak of the disease. But the committee also gave the owners of farms affected and the local authorities and associations in these areas the opportunity to express their opinions during the various visits organised both to the United Kingdom and to the Netherlands. Furthermore, as chairperson of this committee, I have held several meetings on this disease, together with the rapporteur, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, with experts and top officials from non-Community countries, such as Paraguay, Argentina and Brazil. The fruit of all this work is the report being presented today for the vote of this House. The report produced by Mr Kreissl-Dörfler has achieved a broad consensus amongst all the political groups and we hope that, in the same way, the other Members of this House will find sufficient points of agreement to approve it by a majority without substantial changes, with the approval of some of the amendments presented. One of the essential aspects included in the final report of the committee I chair is emergency vaccination, which is considered to be an essential method for controlling any future outbreak of the disease. The current policy of the European Union – to quell outbreaks of this disease by culling the cattle of the farms in which any infected animal has been detected and that of neighbouring farms where there is a likelihood of contagion – cannot continue in the current form. The policy of emergency vaccination must be part of a strategy which allows animals to live. The current policy of not vaccinating prioritises the political and commercial aspects and this is something that must change on an international level, taking the approach initiated by the International Office of Epizootic Diseases and the FAO. The future policy must also take account of the social and psychological impact of an epidemic of foot and mouth disease on the public and must not ignore the consequences it causes in all sectors, such as tourism, commerce, social aspects and emotional aspects. In its report, this temporary committee advocates emergency vaccination and not preventive vaccinations, since, ladies and gentlemen, these could be considered as a backwards step in the policy of eradication for the scientific, technical, economic and commercial reasons which both we and the Commissioner have expressed. Ladies and gentlemen, another of the most important aspects of the work of this committee relates to the control of imports. The European Parliament must insist on a policy on meat imports which imposes zero tolerance in order to guarantee that not a single kilogram of unexamined meat originating from a third country enters the European Union. This House should insist on this issue and must remind the Commission that it cannot ignore the problem of illegal imports. The great food crises are always based on non-compliances with Community legislation. Furthermore, I believe we must congratulate the Commission on having acted so quickly with the legislative proposals the Commissioner has just announced, with regard to control, identification, the quality of products and vaccinations. In the same way, the temporary committee is asking the Commission to draw up a global strategy for diseases and zoonosis in the European Union. For all these reasons, I would ask that the House give this report its majority support. I would especially like to congratulate the rapporteur, with whom I have found it so easy to work; all the members of the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease, who have worked hard, and whose work and criticisms have been constructive; I would also like to congratulate in particular the secretariat for its rigour and for its bold work and our interpreters, without whom this committee would not have been able to carry out its work. – The Commissioner has just told us only what he was able to tell us. Other things have been left out, however, which have already been debated in the special committees on agriculture. For example, with regard to rice, he knows that the subsidy price has been reduced by 60%, that internal production has stabilised and that consumption has increased by 20%. However, for five years the situation has been unsustainable for rice producers, who are facing an increasingly bleak future, as a result of the Everything but Arms decisions and imports of basmati rice, which do not correspond either in terms of their characteristics or their origins. We could also consider garlic, mushrooms, honey, tomato, rice, wine, concentrated juices, etc., and we would see that the quality, the safety of products imported, as well as the production methods, both in terms of animal welfare and in terms of guaranteeing quality and the environment, are not subject to any control. I would therefore ask you what supplementary measures are subject to the supervision of the Commission, but do not tell me that control falls to the Member States. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate Mrs Lienemann on the report she has carried out, and also the Commission – why not? – because this report, this position, generally improves on the texts in force. Furthermore, it contains more acceptable systematics and is clearer and more transparent. I would also like to congratulate the services of the Commission, since the evaluation, control and monitoring of the LIFE programme provide a reasonable guarantee with regard to the selection and execution of projects. However, I would like to insist on certain points. Firstly, its continuity, which, in principle, I am not questioning. Secondly, the financial contributions. Sadly, only 7.2% of the projects requested receive funds. Of the EUR 1 919 million requested, only EUR 784 million have been granted. Now the financial statement shows only EUR 613 million to cover more countries and competences. Parliament has proposed EUR 850 million, but the document repeats the initial proposal of EUR 613 million. Commissioner, our environmental commitments are increasing in all areas, while the only financial instrument exclusively dedicated to the environment is decreasing. Is this not a contradiction? Let us not demand from others what we are not prepared to give ourselves? Why do we all go on about the environment and are then not prepared to pay for it amongst all of us, but rather expect the usual people, the ones who live there all year, to pay for it and maintain it? Commissioner, we must be consistent. The cost of maintaining the environment, which we all enjoy, must be met by all of us, and the LIFE programme is the only financial instrument aimed exclusively at the environment and whose projects have generally been effective. – Mr President, with some difficulty we have been able to reach Strasbourg to participate in this debate which is so important to the future of European agriculture and to the COM in sugar in my country and in my region. I find it difficult to understand the Commission’s proposal to reduce the quotas by 115 000 tonnes or reduce storage aid in order to save EUR 300 million, as well as reducing time limits. I believe that these are substantial changes, which are unjustifiable. And why until 2003? I would like the Commission to tell us whether it thinks that, after 2003, there will be more resources and this provisional amendment will be justified. I would like to congratulate Mr Daul on his work on the Commission’s proposal and on the special sensitivity he has shown in relation to each of the problems which we have raised, with regard to which he has been able to reach a compromise and has included them in his report. I would like this provisional amendment, tabled by our parliamentary committee, in which it opts for maintaining a system of quotas without modifying the system of prices, to be taken into account by the Commissioner and that the Commission will change its position in the way proposed by Mr Daul, whose report we agree with on all its fundamental aspects and which we are prepared to support tomorrow morning. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would also like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, who I think has done an excellent job, and the rest of the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, who have also worked hard. One of the objectives of this directive is to harmonise, and the directive has been drawn up – the Commission says so – to eliminate barriers to internal trade. But it does not fully harmonise, as there may be differences between the Member States in the way that they deal with the declarations on the products. Ladies and gentlemen, the internal market does not work. At the end of 2000 the number of violation proceedings initiated by the Commission associated with this problem was 27. According to the Commission, this diversity of regulations has created barriers to Community trade, and the principle of mutual recognition has not solved the problems. Harmonisation is therefore necessary. I am going to refer specifically to Amendment No 51, which is tabled by a group of us who have a series of problems, as the situation of lack of definition that the legislation of eight Member States is currently in could result in the production and sale of these food supplements, which are not included in this directive, being banned, once it is transposed. Meanwhile, the national legislation of the other Member States that regulate these food supplements would allow them to be produced and, as a result of the rules of the internal market, to be sold across the European Union. Commissioner, this is not harmonisation. We need to allow the production and sale of such substances in the countries where there is no national legislation, as long as their composition is identical to the substances that are already sold in one or various Member States, while Community rules, through its scientific committees, extend the scope of application of this directive. – Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to congratulate the European institutions and the members of the conciliation committee who, under the presidency of Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf and Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck – who I would have liked to have been here –, who have been able, sparing no effort, to unite differing views in order to reach a reasonable compromise between the two basic positions which initially seemed incompatible. That is to say, firstly, the obligatory declaration of all raw materials, with a tolerance level of 15%, and the obligation of feed producers to communicate the exact percentages, whenever required by animal farmers, to which I believe we should add a time limit, set previously in this legislation, and, secondly, the positive list – which all the previous speakers have mentioned – which the Commission must present before the end of 2002, once the viability studies have been carried out. When it comes to restoring consumer confidence, following the recent food crises (BSE, dioxins, etc.) absolute transparency is necessary, even indispensable. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is an example of how, within the scope of the codecision procedure, it is possible to reach reasonable agreements – good agreements, I would say – and we in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development will therefore continue to ask the Council to gradually extend that procedure to all legislative actions in the field of the Community’s agricultural policy. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for his efforts and praise the important work of the institutions in their approach to animal health which also, of course, facilitates the protection of human health. This proposal falls within the framework of the legislation intended to strengthen the rules on feedingstuffs, included in the White Paper on food safety. Therefore, Parliament, as well as the Commission, demands mandatory labelling which specifies the composition – as a percentage by weight, as Mr Cunha said –, the quantities and the origin of the ingredients of the feedingstuffs, rather than indicating the categories of the ingredients with no further detail, such as, for example, by proteins or by oils and fats, which has had so much to do with previous scandals such as the cases of BSE and dioxins. The demand that manufacturers provide proof of the composition of foods, and that there be an exhaustive and up-to-date list of authorised raw materials and rigorous controls of suspicious materials – and their immediate withdrawal from the market – must from now on be essential issues for us. I am grateful that this matter is finally coming to its conclusion and that we are going to have a solution as swiftly as possible. – Mr President, Commissioner, in the field of water policy, the final agreement of June 2000 lays down that the Commission should identify, within the class of hazardous substances, certain priority hazardous substances, whose emission, dumping or loss must cease or be gradually reduced within a time limit of 20 years. The European Commission has amended its proposal so that, by means of a group of experts, the priority hazardous substances should firstly be identified, and secondly a revision clause should introduced which would apply to some of them and, thirdly, the terminology and final text should be adapted. Of the 32 priority substances identified, 11 are proposed as priority hazardous substances, 11 more as priority substances under investigation – all of this within 4 years of the entry into force of the framework directive. There is no data on the toxicity, persistence or bioaccumulation of the remaining 10 substances. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, whose three amendments should be supported, points out that natural nutrients should not be classed as priority hazardous substances and, on the issue of plant protection products, there is already an established procedure: Directive 91/414, which should be respected, as well as the decision that it must be adapted at the same time, not before and not later. Lastly, the different definitions should be reorganised, such as the hydrographical district or the management of those districts, since that would prevent the various regulations from having differing effects on the same territories and problems, which could happen on applying the DMA, the COMMPS and the OSPAR agreements. – Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, I also would have liked to have thanked the Commissioner too, but his duties have prevented him from being in the House for this important debate. I would like first to thank Mr Daul for the conciliatory work he has undertaken in the difficult task of moving this resolution forward. The resolution is the result of a great effort especially on his part and also on the part of all the political groups. Parliament should not introduce any changes as this could threaten the consensus. The Brussels Summit clarified many of the unknown quantities, especially as regards the ceiling on spending. However, doubts remain on the content of the CAP review. These will not be resolved until the Commission presents its legislative proposals to us. Therefore, I think it is truly important that we, as members of all the political groups represented in this document, send out a strong message tomorrow. It must be a strong, clear and direct message in support of farmers. We need to say to the farmers that although the common agricultural policy must be revised, we will ensure this is done in the best possible way, within the scope of the funds allocated up to 2013. As regards the two central strands I have identified in the review, the one that really worries me is the decoupling of aid, as some Members have already mentioned. If this is carried out as proposed, I think the CAP would be holed below its waterline. We need to think long and hard about this. I think that the partial decoupling as proposed by the consensus reached through Mr Daul is a step in the right direction, but we could still examine these issues further and in greater depth. Without going into detail, I should make the general point that we must give women and young people living in rural areas a future or there will nobody to take over from the present generation. – Commissioner, when Agenda 2000 was signed in 1999 in Berlin we all breathed a sigh of relief as it began a period of budgetary calm in which multifunctionality had laid strong foundations guaranteeing the survival of a sustainable rural environment, in which quality, safety and respect for the environment had found their place. The interim review is, therefore, key. The common agricultural policy is currently undergoing a major change, due to the challenges that the European Union has to face, particularly with enlargement to the East and the negotiations with the World Trade Organisation. The European Union is preparing to undertake a review of the CAP in 2003, which could be the prelude to a more in-depth reform planned for 2006. One of the key elements in this debate is the modulation of aid from the market policy in order to transfer funds to the second pillar, to rural development, where we have been left short; in this way we will achieve a policy that many think will be more consistent with the agreements obtained at the WTO, as well as easing the path to accession. What appears to be a laudable aim, however, could also be a double-edged sword. We all want farmers to contribute to the sustainable maintenance of rural areas, but those areas cannot live without farmers, and what is more, if we try to achieve the final objective at any cost, we run the risk of using the wrong methods, because although we all want greater rural development, this cannot take place if it endangers the profitability of farming. Any change made by the European Union to direct income aid must be done without damaging the income of farmers. Therefore, if we accept the modulation of CAP aid, that modulation must take place according to parameters that do not put paid to the competitiveness of farms and that take into account the economic inequalities of the European Union. We must therefore be extremely careful when passing on this message to society. That careful attitude is, I think, what inspired the European Commission to decide to postpone the presentation of its proposal to revise the CAP for 2003 to 10 July, once the United States has passed its new farming law. This new law represents a u-turn in United States policy by reintroducing a clear support for prices, which could place Community producers at a clear disadvantage. The European Union cannot give in to the whims of any country when the future of its farmers is a stake. I would like the European Commission to present its proposals to the European Parliament and very carefully weigh up the impact that the Farm Bill is going to have. We should demand a report from the Community executive on that impact in order to be clear about this. If we have to opt for modulation, it should be approached with care, taking a careful line that will not lead us to a point of no return for our farmers. – Mr President, Commissioner, in the proposal that is being put to us, the European Commission is asking Parliament and the Council to give our opinion on whether the evaluation period for active substances, which was to be completed by July 2003, should be extended to 2008. There are 834 substances still to be evaluated. The Commission is trying to be realistic, and it does of course have our support, but I think that its position is optimistic, as in the previous period less than one hundred substances were analysed. I am going to highlight the most important points for the Group of the European People’s Party: first of all, we must retain the possibility of essential uses, as it could be traumatic for some farms and regions if they were to disappear. We should retain and support those amendments in that respect. Secondly, I cannot share the thinking that the substances are harmful in themselves, as it depends on the concentration, the situation, and how they are used. Our objective should therefore be the smallest risk, which does not mean the smallest quantity. Thirdly, the preliminary evaluation should under no circumstances be conducted by industries, NGOs, etc., as proposed in an amendment that we do not support, but by those legally established to conduct it. However, the industries, NGOs, etc. should have access to all the information and can contribute studies and tests to the evaluations. The new integrated farming policy that is emerging in the European Union has led to a considerable decrease in the use of plant protection products, for example in some farms such as extensive arable farms. The public has not appreciated this and is not sufficiently aware of it. The public is increasingly sensitive to the theories of environmentalists, which if they are upheld could lead to undesirable effects on biodiversity due to accumulation as a result of a lack of protection on small farms. This could cause serious problems in terms of lack of supply and dependency and could prevent us from seeking solutions for essential uses and lead us to establish parameters that are beyond the limits determined by analysis or to have plant protection products evaluated by interested NGOs. Interested in what, and why, I wonder? Technical evaluations are done by scientists and discussed between scientists. I would ask the European Commission, the Commissioner and all of the political groups in Parliament to be responsible when voting and to take into account that, without agriculture, sustainable development is not possible. Perhaps agriculture can exist without sustainable development, but the reverse is not an option. – Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the report on the protection of forests to be postponed until the next sitting, because today, for unavoidable reasons, I must leave this Parliament at 5 p.m. –  Mr President, the Commission proposes extending Decision 96/411 until 2002, removing certain articles in order to simplify its implementation and bringing forward the payment of 30% of the Community contribution to the Member States, and to do all of this in accordance with the codecision procedure. In 1997 an amendment to this Decision was presented which extended by two years the deadline for Member States to send their reports and the deadline for the Commission to draw up a progress report for Parliament and for the Council. Given the importance of the common agricultural policy, the availability to everybody of reliable information for the purposes of decision making is essential. Therefore, it must be a priority for the institutions to provide the means for this information to be ever more complete, reliable and quick, and therefore agricultural statistics must be ever more flexible, harmonious and coherent with other statistical fields with the possibility of incorporating new sources. To this end, we have to identify, firstly, the areas in which it is possible to implement rationalisation measures, secondly, areas where there are new and increasing needs, and thirdly, general principles in accordance with which actions are carried out. Having said this, it should not be necessary to point out that all the Member States should act in accordance with these intentions. However, this is not the case: this is a voluntary programme for the Member States. I would like to stress that it is not at all easy for this Parliament to understand that any Member State might say “I am not interested, I am not taking part”. The common agricultural policy belongs to all the Member States. It affects all of us. Therefore, I would like both the Commission and the Council to reconsider the matter and for the next proposal submitted to this Parliament to establish the obligatory nature of its application in all Member States, with a single legal basis in the statistical field. There is another aspect which I would like to point out to the Commission and the Council with regard to amendment 5, which I hope will be taken into account, given that the information requested in it, according to Regulation (EC) 1390/99, which entered into force on 23 November 1999, establishes in article 2 that “each Member State will provide the Commission with all the information classified by budgetary items which will be forwarded at the request of the Commission within 30 days”. Therefore, I request a specific commitment by the Commission that it will define each year, amongst the priority plans for technical action proposed to it by the Standing Committee on Agricultural Statistics, the things requested in our Amendments Nos 4 and 5, since otherwise, the codecision procedure would be delayed and it would become more difficult for the Member States to draw up their statistical reports. Therefore, I would like to hear the Commission’s opinion with regard to this point in the debate. – Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal presented by the Commission, in accordance with its mandate, is a reasonable starting point for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I would like to point out, however, that this starting point indicates to us the challenges which face us: maintaining a population in rural areas, given the changes taking place in all types of economic activity owing to agriculture’s increasing lack of importance amongst the various sources of income for rural society. This, as well as the deficiencies in the networks of infrastructures and services and a generally very low level of employment, which furthermore is seasonal and lacks diversity, exacerbates the exodus from rural areas. The consequences do not inspire hope. It is the young people who are disappearing, who are getting an education and finding work outside of the rural areas, all of which has an unfavourable effect on those areas. This lack of infrastructure is also an obstacle to the establishment of companies and the creation of jobs. We have to remember that rural areas represent almost four fifths of the territory of the European Union. Agriculture only provides 5.5% of employment in the Union. Furthermore, three quarters of our farm workers are part-time and require supplements to their incomes. For this reason, one of the most important and essential objectives which we should set in the European Union is to make efforts to create new jobs in rural areas, outside of the agricultural sector, in sectors such as rural tourism, sport, culture, heritage conservation, the conversion of businesses, new technologies, services, etc. However, even though the role of agriculture is not exclusive, it is still essential, not only to prevent economic and social disintegration and the creation of ghost towns, but also because farmers play a fundamental role in managing the land, in preserving biodiversity and in protecting the environment. Therefore, we support the establishment of an agricultural and rural development policy which is consistent with the objectives we have set. We want rural areas, at the dawn of the 21st century, to be competitive and multi-functional, both with regard to agriculture and with regard to opening up to the diversity of non-agricultural activities. It is important to prioritise general criteria for land planning and demographic equilibrium, and to bear in mind the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the five fundamental issues, which have been only partly taken up by the Committee on Transport, Regional Policy and Tourism in its points 16 and 17. In conclusion, I would ask the Commission to take these five points into account when establishing the conclusions on the four pillars because I believe that, for the European Union, maintaining the population in rural areas must be one of the priority objectives. – Mr President, Commissioner, we are dealing with two proposals: a proposal for a Council Decision and a proposal for a Council Regulation on the trade, export and import of dangerous chemicals. The proposal for a Decision requests ratification as soon as possible of the Rotterdam Convention, whose main objective is to regulate the international trade in hazardous chemicals, but also, and this is what we believe in Parliament, to protect human health and the environment, and it is important that this be done now. We have therefore asked that the legal basis be changed from Article 133 of the EC Treaty, which regulates commercial trade, to Article 175, in accordance with codecision. The proposal for a Regulation, which is exhaustive and very strict, lays down very strict rules for intra-Community trade in pesticides. What we are asking for is a degree of flexibility. As Mr Blokland has already said, we have reached an important agreement after many discussions amongst all the political groups, so that, after the change in the legal basis, this package of amendments can be ratified and accepted both by the Commission and by the Council, and so that Parliament’s position can end at first reading and we can reach a conclusion which we all agree on. Not all regulations – as Mr Blokland also said – relating to pesticides are equivalent in all countries, and the Commissioner is perfectly aware that they will be unified, but not before the minimum time limit of between 5 and 10 years. The regulation on pesticides and the analyses for approval are very delayed, since of the over eight hundred active areas to be regulated, not even one hundred have been analysed. We can therefore assume that this issue will be delayed. The Regulation we are going to approve, on the prior informed consent procedure, is important because it gives the receiver prior information on what the sender is going to send. This is not only valid for the Member States of the European Union but also for non-Member countries, to which we must apply the same requirements. I would ask the Members of Parliament to support the report as it stands, with the voting list proposed by Mr Blokland, whom I warmly congratulate, since he has done great work on an issue which is very controversial and difficult and highly scientific. – Mr President, I must thank the Commissioner for being present in this almost deserted chamber on a Thursday evening. This House will end up as barren as the programme which you are presenting us with for nuts. I would also like to thank all of you who are here to debate the future of nuts in the European Union. I had my speech prepared, but having heard the reply which the Commissioner has just given us and the words of Mr Jové in his presentation, I believe that I am going to forget my notes and try to improvise in reply to the Commissioner’s response. The Commissioner is aware of the problems of nuts in the European Union and he is aware that we are dependent on a single supplier in many cases: the United States, on the one hand, in the case of almonds, and Turkey, in the case of hazelnuts. The Commissioner is also aware of the benefits – as Mr Jové has stressed – for the arid areas where all these crops are cultivated, and this cultivation is not improvised from year to year, since it takes a long time to grow an almond tree or a walnut tree. Therefore, Commissioner, I believe that we are facing a very extensive problem. When you tell us that there are structural problems of low productivity and high production costs in the European Union, we must ask ourselves whether we want a nut sector or whether we want to be totally dependent on outside sources? We only provide 50% of the supply, for the rest we depend on other countries. At this rate, we will end up with nothing. You tell us that there have had to be negotiations and that there is already aid from the COM in fruit and also within the framework of the rural development projects. Therefore, I would like to say that, in the COM in fruits, the operational funds are intended for those crops – for those fruits – for which there is large-scale production. In those cases, the operational funds – which are a very small percentage of this global production per hectare, some 1.5 or 2% – are a reasonable amount to work with. In the case of production per hectare which amounts to little more than ESP 100 000, I believe that the operational funds of the COM in fruits have very little significance and offer very little in terms of resolving the problem of nuts. With regard to the framework of the rural development projects, the Commissioner knows much better than I do that, in rural development, the second pillar of the CAP – which we all view with great hope and we congratulate him for having brought it up and united it in one budgetary line –, in the regions where these fruits are grown – which are basically Objective 1 regions in some cases, and Objective 2 regions in others–, the programmes developed there are LEADER programmes. In these LEADER programmes, and PRODER programmes in the case of Spain, where there are national programmes, which are organised from the bottom up, it will be difficult to consider a specific cultivation as being of strategic interest and as a strategic sector, when these programmes normally deal with problems of general interest. However, Commissioner, what we are proposing to you, and I believe that all the political groups are in agreement on this, is the partial continuation, not continuation  but continuation until a certain date,Commissioner, of improvement funds and plans, because in some cases they have still not ended, and in other cases their objectives have still not been fulfilled. However, these funds are absolutely essential to the maintenance of the crop, as long as nuts are subject to differentiated treatment within the coming reform of the COM in fruits and vegetables. Commissioner, I believe that we are talking about a sum of money which is not especially large and which can be covered within the miserly budgets which, according to what your department tells us, are available for allocation. Therefore, Commissioner, the extension of these improvement plans, as long as they are organised, used, and allocated according to a differentiated treatment in the coming reform of fruits, which will happen shortly, I believe that this will resolve and calm the fears which Mr Jové has expressed, which are shared by all the nut producers in the European Union, as they communicated to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, where they received our political support. Since these producers have the political support of this House, I believe that it would not be justifiable to deny them a few pesetas of economic support. – Mr President, we are talking about a directive which attempts to harmonise marketing, manufacture, the different ingredients of tobacco (nicotine and tar content etc.), as well as their presentation to potential consumers. I believe that nobody can rationally oppose this. This harmonisation directive is necessary, and it is necessary that we carry out this harmonisation in all respects, without leaving significant gaps, with regard to the possible use or non-use of certain terms, such as “light” or “ultra-light”, to the discretion of the Member States. If we are going to harmonise, let us harmonise and not be fainthearted about it, within the technological possibilities which may be available to us. However, to ask in passing for the removal of aid to tobacco growers is to hijack a different debate: that attitude is, ‘while we are on the subject of tobacco, let us ask for the removal of aid to the growers’. I believe that it is truly hypocritical to ask, within this harmonisation directive, for the removal of aid to tobacco growers. Why not simply talk about the processing of tobacco? Why not talk about the multinationals established in some Member States who tear their hair out when we discuss the production and consumption of tobacco? Why not talk about this processing? There is no way that I can accept this request for the removal of aid to tobacco. When the proposed amendment of the COM in tobacco is presented to us, then we will either discuss it or not and we will reach an appropriate agreement. However, this harmonisation directive should be restricted to harmonising. Commissioner, you have the responsibility for harmonising, and harmonising in the real sense, and to this end I believe you have the support of the majority of this House. – Madam President, I would like inform you and this House that two citizens of my country, from my region –  – have been held captive in Georgia since 30 November of last year. Mr José Antonio Tremiño Gómez and Mr Francisco Jesús Rodríguez Cabal, who travelled to that country six months ago, have been held in an unknown location since then, and there has been no information from any source there. Madam President, I would ask you to take note of this serious problem, which affects these two European citizens and their families, so that you may urge the Georgian authorities to immediately locate and free these two Spaniards, who are being deprived of their main fundamental right; freedom. –  Madam President, Commissioner, tomorrow Parliament is to vote on the proposal for reform in the processed fruit and vegetable sector. I believe this reform is necessary, but in its proposal the European Commission is not moving in exactly the right direction. The objective of promoting supply pooling must be met by encouraging producer organisations. Last year, as Mr Jové Peres has said, only 40% of production was marketed through producer associations. Therefore, the amendments approved by the Agriculture Committee and Rural Development, under which up to 50% of the costs of creation and operation can be cofinanced under the EAGGF guarantee for the first five years, answer a need, Commissioner, as does covering the financial aid of 3 to 4.5%, as approved by the Agriculture Committee, of the produce marketed by each producer organisation. We are not happy with the thresholds proposed by the European Commission, since they should be adjusted in accordance with market fluctuations. Therefore the approved amendments proposed by the rapporteur on this matter enjoy our full approval. The list of products should be extended to include those that may be vulnerable to major falls in prices due to the weather or for cyclical reasons. The Commission’s proposal to reduce the maximum citrus-fruit withdrawal ceiling from 10% to 5% is unjustified and I believe it should not be upheld. Certain instruments for regulating the market in emergency crisis situations must be introduced to act as a safety net, for example, by exceeding the withdrawal ceiling by about 10% in the event of serious crises. There is a gap in the area of labelling. The legislation in force on this issue needs to be changed so that the consumer may be kept fully informed and know whether the product has been made from fresh fruit or not. This is a request and complaint that consumers are always making. I support the amendments affecting tomatoes, pears, peaches, cherries, apricots and asparagus, which are of major regional importance and should receive a fixed amount of aid per hectare to improve their competitiveness. With regard to dry fruit and nuts, especially hazelnuts, the request to extend the period of aid given to producer organisations that have implemented their improvement plans is still valid, as are the measures specific to this sector which are due to expire in the next round even though there has been no change in their circumstances. The analysis of the reforms, which the Agriculture Committee and Rural Development has so insistently called for, should be submitted by 30 June 2001 so that we can see how the sector has been performing. These reforms mean a budget increase, but within the line approved at the Berlin European Summit. The Commission should do its sums again in view of the fact that this ceiling is not exceeded. The difference between the Commission’s proposals and the European Parliament’s is EUR 151. Budget neutrality, Commissioner, does not mean that expenditure under the proposal does not exceed what is currently spent but rather that it stays within what was agreed at the Berlin European Summit. I take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur and I applaud the teamwork we have achieved. I believe this has been one of the proposals most based on give and take and finding a balance that we have seen in this Parliament. – Mr President, I simply wish to thank and congratulate Mr Mayer on the report he has carried out, which affects all the hop-producing countries of the Community and which, in the case of Spain, affects my region, Castilla-León, in the León area. I agree with everything Mr Mayer has said. The report has been unanimously approved in the Committee on Agriculture. I congratulate Mr Mayer and I hope that he receives the support of this Parliament. . – Mr President, Commissioner, as the Commission has just said, we are dealing with a report which we will vote on tomorrow, which has been approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and which in overall terms has supported the report produced by this rapporteur.  replaces two regulations in force until December 2002, the legal basis of which, changed from the former Article 130 to the current Article 175, was changed on 25 February. In other words, it became subject to approval by co-decision. This report studied both protection against fires and atmospheric pollution, and now actions in the field of biodiversity, climate change and the retention of carbon are going to be included. Actions in the sixth framework action programme in the field of the environment which the European Commission and the Community are obliged to implement. However, the proposal replaces the majority of the measures on fire prevention in the former Regulation (EEC) No 2158/92. Now, the Commissioner has just told us that these measures are included in the rural and regional development programmes which he mentioned. I must say to him that the Member States have already presented the plans of the rural development Regulation, which was approved in 2000, but which has not been able to take account of fire prevention plans. Therefore, it does not seem to make sense to have asked the Member States to guess that in 2003 or at the end of 2002, as it should have been, this Parliament and the Commission were going to debate the replacement of the Regulation and that it was going to be transferred to the rural development programme and furthermore that it was going to be transferred with a miserable budget of EUR 5 million, because this quantity does not appear in the rural development programme. It will therefore have to appear in order to balance the 2002 budget. That is, EUR 18 million per year. Now, Commissioner, we are spending EUR 18 million. That is what is balanced and consolidated in 2002. The Commission proposes EUR 13 million. It seems absurd that we want to take the same measures, plus those relating to biodiversity, climate change and the retention of carbon, with such a significant reduction in the budget. I believe that considerable efforts have been made, both by the Council and by this Parliament, to reach to a compromise agreement, with compromise measures which ended in 2006. It appears that it has not been possible for the Commission to reach this agreement. I am sorry, Commissioner, but this is a regulation which is decided by means of co-decision in this Parliament and I therefore believe that the proposal which was originally on the table has been withdrawn by this rapporteur in Amendment No 44 so that we can all discuss it on equal terms. I believe that we all have to make a move, not just Parliament. Of the amendments presented by the Group of the European Socialist Party, this rapporteur accepts Amendment No 48. However, Amendment No 47 is not acceptable since it would go against the spirit of the report. There are other amendments presented by this rapporteur: two of them are amendments of a legal nature, and a third in which all we ask is that the idea already included in the recitals of increasing the scope of the European forest information system be incorporated into the Articles. I would have liked to have introduced some other ideas, such as prioritising certain methodological projects and also promoting ‘old’ activities, if I may put it like that, and not just those proposed in the new modules. I also believe that it would most advisable for the time periods to last one year, and that there be a pilot period, which needs to take account of the frequent interactions of the experts. I do not believe it is a good idea to transfer these issues to the rural development programme, Commissioner, since that would mean moving from the only regulation which is currently subject to co-decision and it is the only regulation which protects our forests. I would say, to use rather unorthodox terms for a plenary session, that this would be like leaving a sweet at the gates of a school. Commissioner, we have time to clarify both the budget and the harmony of these regulations. I believe we are obliged to do so. Mr President, Commissioner, olive oil is one of the healthiest foodstuffs produced. It is a product enjoying a growing market, precisely because consumers are increasingly mindful of their health. Surpluses are certainly not a problem for this sector. Indeed, the latter is currently driving forward progress in extensive regions located in the Mediterranean countries. It would be difficult to grow other crops on the land concerned. Consequently, all this is very much in line with the hoped-for economic dynamism identified as an objective at various summits of Heads of State or Government. Consequently, there is no valid reason to curtail the development of this sector. Nonetheless, the draft reform on the table before the Council of Ministers for Agriculture Ministers contains only a cursory reference to the condition of the sector. The scant attention paid to the difficulties mentioned by several countries merits particular criticism. My own home country, Spain, was one of those disregarded, despite being the greatest producer of olive oil in the European Union and indeed in the world. In response to a number of questions in Parliament and even today, the European Commission has admitted that 23% of the olive trees in Spain would cease to receive Community aid. According to data provided by Commissioner Fischler, 66 million of the 288 million olive trees planted before May 1988 will not come into production within the reference period used to calculate decoupled aid, namely 2000-2002. The Commission feels that this deficit can be dealt with by drawing on the national reserve of rights to aid to be set up following the reform of the CAP agreed in September 2003. This reserve will be composed of 3% of the decoupled rights. It is worth stating, however, that the reserve will be used not only for this particular purpose but also to deal with other potential shortfalls in any one of the sectors reformed. I therefore suggest the cake in question is far too small for each of the many guests likely to turn up at the party to be able to enjoy a reasonable slice. The European Commission has also failed to take account of the inadequate quota allocated to Spain in 1998. Commissioner Fischler gave confirmation of this before the House today. In spite of the adjustment agreed in that year, a political agreement was reached. This was clearly enshrined in the recitals of the COM Regulation, providing for review of national quotas, once reliable data on the situation of the sector was available to the Member States. Such data is now available. It has been on the table for some time, thanks to studies conducted under the auspices of the Commission itself. The studies make it quite clear that the quota allocated to Spain falls far short of actual production. Producers should not lose out through reform of the olive oil sector. They have made a great effort to improve their marketing in recent years. Provision should also be made for olive groves located in marginal regions of the European Union. These groves play an important socio-economic and environmental role in such regions. The 1998 groves that have not come into production during the reference period should not be overlooked either. Reform of the sector should include an appropriate degree of flexibility to allow each of the producer countries to deal with its own specific situation. Further, along with the other Mediterranean sectors debated in the House today, the olive oil sector must enjoy the same preferential status accorded to all other reformed agricultural sectors. Producer countries should therefore be allowed to designate a transitional period before the new reforms come into force. All these suggestions are contained in the proposal tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. This is a consensus proposal and it has enabled us all to move forward. I should like to thank Mr Daul, Mr Mayer, Mr Lavarra and Mr Berlato. There is no cause for concern, Amendment No 87 was adopted and should appear in the consolidated text. In addition, I would ask Mr Cercas to convey to ... . – Mr President, I would like to ask the Commission to confirm to the House the commitment it made in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the next proposal to include nuts in the statistical surveys of fruit trees. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to congratulate the Commission on the proposal it has put forward, mainly because it will simplify the COM and will give security and stability to the sector, and also the rapporteur, because he has been able to reconcile the various political sensitivities in this House, sparing no effort to achieve this. I would ask the Commission to listen to the political message from this Parliament, which is asking for an increase in the premium. This premium is much needed, because it has remained unaltered since 1994; in fact, it has stagnated. This is the reason why this is one of the sectors that receives the least aid and is the most discriminated against within the COM at the present time. I think that the proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is reasonable. However, we will not give our support to amendments put forward , because we think that some, such as those put forward by Mr Mulder, should be dealt with in another context, although, it must be said, we are not against what he is saying. Others run counter to what has already been discussed and on which consensus has been reached in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and would, consequently, blur the political message of this Parliament. I would ask the Commission, in its debate with Council, to make the necessary effort to give the sector what it needs. Given that it has already made such an effort when putting forward the proposal, by simplifying the premiums, on the subject of the single premium, and on the possibilities of the Member States managing these premiums, it should make a reasonable budgetary effort – which the Committee on Budgets is not against – so that the objective the sector considers necessary can be achieved. Mr President, since Europe has such large numbers of sheep and goats it is necessary to introduce an efficient system for the identification of animals, which, at the same time, does not impose an administrative burden on producers. The IDEA project, implemented a few years ago by the European Commission, demonstrated that it is possible to implement an individual electronic identification system in the European Union. The proof that the system is viable can be found in the fact that Spain, a country which, together with the United Kingdom, has one of the most significant herds in the European Union, has just gone ahead with the purchase of a million devices which are placed in the digestive system of ruminants for the differentiation of the different genotypes of sheep and goats. Following the foot and mouth crisis, which decimated the United Kingdom's cattle stocks, it is urgent that we implement an individual identification system like the one which is being discussed, in order to try to prevent the recurrence of this type of veterinary epidemic. As a former chairperson of the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease, I would like to congratulate the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the European Parliament because we have been able to achieve compromise positions in the report approved in the Committee on Agriculture. I would like to point out that, at the end of the work carried out by the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease, the European Parliament expressed its support for individual identification, a position which was taken up by the European Commission. The report we will vote on tomorrow contains two compromise amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, which respect the interests of the European Union's producers. One of them relates to the age from which the identification of animals must be carried out. According to the compromise achieved, this is six months for intensive breeding and nine in the case of extensive breeding. The second compromise amendment, presented by the rapporteur, sets the date of July 2007 for the introduction of electronic identification, which sends a clear message to both breeders and the industry manufacturing the devices necessary for the electronic system. I therefore hope that the results achieved in the Committee on Agriculture are fully adopted in plenary. However, I would like to express my support for the technical modifications introduced by our shadow rapporteur, in the only amendment which has been presented in plenary, relating to the document on the transport of animals. I would also like to end by congratulating the rapporteur, who has made the effort to achieve compromise and to work in favour of identification and therefore in favour of cattle breeding. Congratulations, Mr Adam. –  Mr President, Commissioner, Parliament will deliver its opinion tomorrow on a package of regulations that aim to guarantee the hygiene of foodstuffs in general and to establish specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin in particular. This new legislation is based on the fundamental need to guarantee food safety from farm to table, along the lines of the initiatives that have been adopted over the past months in order to provide the consumer with the best possible guarantees. At this point, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has made a great effort in trying to achieve consensus between all the groups. I think he has written an excellent report. I should also like to congratulate the Commission on having also presented a reasonably well-balanced proposal. One of the key points of the future regulation, however, is the mandatory application of the HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points) for all food establishments. The application of the HACCP standard should, however, be considered as an additional safety measure, which cannot replace official controls. The HACCP system cannot be extended, for the moment, to the primary sector, given that this system has been designed exclusively for industry. The primary sector is already obliged to respect the ‘good practice guides’, a set of rules with similar aims to the HACCP but better adapted to the characteristics of this particular economic sector, and which we should not aim to duplicate. The various food crises that have taken place make it necessary to strengthen hygiene regulations in order to regain consumer confidence, an objective that the European Commission has duly included in its proposal and which will no doubt be improved by the European Parliament with the approval of its amendments on the basis of traditional products, game, and so on, listed by the Members of this House who have spoken before me. Economic agents must continue to shoulder responsibility for food safety, ensure traceability of food and food ingredients and must put in place product withdrawal procedures in case of food emergencies. Codes of good practice should be established by the various food sectors in order to give guidance to food business operators on food safety. Also, imports from and imports to third countries must comply with Community hygiene standards. Mr President, at this stage of the debate we have said practically everything in favour and against the Commission’s proposal, which, as Mr Jové said – and I entirely agree with what he said – is being made by trial and error, with no technical or scientific rigour, and without taking account of the fact that, according to the legislation in force in the European Union, we must promote the free movement of goods, persons and capital between all the Members States of the European Union, including the outlying and accession countries, which from 1 May will be full Members. This is not a proposal for the welfare of animals – the welfare of which I support entirely. How can we try to justify this being applied to animals for slaughter and not to all other animals? Transport and welfare affects all animals, not just those intended for slaughter, or is this perhaps a commercial measure, a commercial restriction? What do we want? For the peripheral countries to be left out of the market? What is the technical and scientific basis for laying down this differentiation in European legislation? Why are we justifying four hours, eight hours, nine hours? Why increase spaces? In order to increase costs? Whom does this benefit? The animals are seriously harmed, because of the risk of the friction, rubbing, injuries and fights which may arise. What is the justification? This is demonstrated by scientific and technical studies carried out at European level by the association of transporters. Nor do I want to go into loading and unloading operations, temperature, etc. This is not justified either, which is what the report attempts to do in technical terms. We call for support for the amendments we have presented so that specific treatment is given to peripheral areas – Sweden, Finland, Portugal, Italy, Spain, etc. – so that we are not left out of the market. With proposals of four hours, in my region I cannot even get from one part to another, let alone participate in other international markets, which is my right. –  Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I should like to congratulate Mr Stevenson on his report, which was adopted by a majority in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Since the ban on meat-and-bone meal, which lay at the root of the mad cow crisis, the Community shortfall of protein-based feed for livestock has grown worse. As some of my fellow Members have said, it has increased by 23%. Faced with this deficit, the only solution that the European Commission has proposed is to increase imports of these protein crops, an increase that will grow worse after the new Member States have joined the Union. The Community’s Executive has rejected the memorandum presented during the recent Spanish Presidency and supported by many Member States, in favour of promoting these crops in the European Union, despite the fact that we are increasingly dependent on soya from the United States. This dependence could, furthermore, increase, following the increase in aid granted by that country under its new agricultural law. Whilst the United States is quite unabashed about increasing its annual aid to soya producers by USD three million, the European Union is not only reducing its aid to oilseed crops, but is also putting its market at the service of imports from these third countries. Apart from commercial reasons, however – which the European Commission wishes to bandy around in order to justify its refusal to re-establish specific aid for oilseed crops – there is no reason not to support other crops with a protein content higher even than that of oilseed crops, such as dry fodder, in the case of which production quotas cannot match demand. In order to address protein supply needs, there are also other crops, such as protein and leguminous crops – such as kidney beans, beans and sweet lupins, which have already been mentioned – which are not subject to any type of WTO restriction and which we could also include. It should not be forgotten, furthermore, that the European Union has given a commitment to reducing CO2 emissions, and that one possible approach is to promote the production of biofuels, which is another reason why the European Parliament should support the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in favour of promoting these crops and of reducing, if not eliminating, these external dependencies, which can cause so many problems with regard to the degree of supply and the quality and safety monitoring of these crops under our rules. Lastly, a comment: Mr Commissioner, if we do not maintain our production and supply capacity, what will become of our ability to negotiate and defend our interests in international forums? – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the disease which is now threatening a borderless Europe may contribute to increasing the citizens’ crisis of confidence in both national and Community institutions. Health risks to livestock, changes in eating habits and the collapse of the production sector are ample cause for us to take extraordinary decisions. Measures have economic and political costs and I would like to know from the Council and the Commission which of these costs they are prepared to meet. Are you prepared to increase aid measures in all the countries of the European Union? What do the European institutions think of wide-scale vaccinations? What position will you adopt in relation to third countries? Are you going to take any steps in relation to the unilateral restrictions being imposed on us by countries such as the United States, Canada, Bulgaria or Saudi Arabia, and in relation to less than rigorous imports from countries which are vaccinating, such as Argentina, Chile, Brazil, etc., which may put all of our livestock at risk? What is going to happen with regard to wild animals, Commissioner? What measures are envisaged for wild animals and for zoos, circuses, etc.? What will happen if deer, wild boar or goats are affected? Lastly, I would like to know whether the European Commission is going to take account of these health crises when presenting its budget for the European emergency veterinary fund, which is so poorly resourced. – Mr President, Commissioner, I shall try to compensate for the fact that the previous speaker overran her time by not using all the time allocated to me. Our group’s position is that we support Mrs Izquierdo Rojo’s report whilst also congratulating the Commission insofar as it is simplifying the procedure. It is important to note that simplification. Simplification is often heralded but rarely achieved. I think something will be achieved this time, because a need which has been mentioned in Parliament on numerous occasions, adopted almost unanimously and accepted by the Council has been recognised. For example, the resolutions dated 16 June and 26 October are in that spirit. We are now proposing that the improvement plans be extended. We do not merely wish them to be extended for one year only. Instead, we would like the amendments unanimously adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development requesting a two-year extension taken into account. We trust the Commission and the Commissioner will be sensitive to these proposals. They are necessary and the Commissioner is perfectly well aware that a year is not long enough to assess the report on the future evolution of the COM in fruit he is due to submit. Nor is it long enough to find a permanent solution for the shell and pod fruit sector, which will have to become part of the fruit and vegetable sector under special conditions. I am aware that all this will prove costly, and that current funding for this major problem is inadequate. However, we cannot allow sectors which are so important to their regions to be written off as a result of agreements signed earlier. Community preference arrangements in those agreements made it hard for the sector to survive, not to mention a whole range of points already made concerning its environmental and social significance. . – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for the explanations he has given us, but he will understand that with the package of amendments the Commission is rejecting ... Tomorrow this Parliament will vote on the report and then we will have to continue working in order to be able to achieve at some point a common position which can be accepted by this House. That is far away, Commissioner, and I believe that it is now the Commission which is obliged to make an effort. It has just told us that the prevention of fires is already included. I would ask, ‘where?’, Commissioner. We have discussed it many times; and as for the EFIS, this is an issue which is still being considered and which does not have so many arguments. We have just seen the Commission run out of arguments. It should reflect, and we should all reflect, in order to find a common position which is good for the forests of Europe, which, as we have seen here, is necessary and which this House supports. –  Mr President, with the association agreement that is currently being negotiated with Morocco, this is now the time when this issue is beginning to gather strength and when the agricultural concessions that will be granted are to be discussed. European farmers are extremely concerned at the negotiating proposal that is being planned by the European Commission or which, at least, has been announced in the press. The Commission appears to prefer to negotiate over the export of cereals, milk, meat and oilseed rather than to go for a 5% annual increase, but is echoing Morocco’s calls to reach 217 000 tonnes of the tomato quota, which is something that really concerns European farmers, especially all fruit and vegetable growers. I should like to ask the Commissioner whether what has been written in the press is true or whether the Commission’s idea is that this burden of proof should be divided equally among all European countries and that it should not always be the farming sector that foots the bill for the association agreement being negotiated with Morocco. –  Mr President, Commissioner, the Commissioner has just explained the details of the Commission’s thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides. Clearly, the proposals amount to a statement of the actions the Commission intends to take in the near future. To this end, it will either introduce measures of its own or submit legislative proposals to Parliament and to the Council of Ministers of the European Union. Essentially, this report seeks to respond to people’s concern about the possible negative effects of pesticides. They can affect human health, animal health and also the environment. I would stress that this is mainly the case when they are not used in a rational or legal manner Nonetheless, the Commission’s proposal contains significant gaps. A great number of comments have therefore been made. The executive arm of the Community should take these into account when it comes to spelling out specific measures. I would like to highlight what I believe to be the most relevant of the comments received. Firstly, the Commission’s proposal does not take account of the different problems encountered in using pesticides in different regions in Europe. The fact that the report does not differentiate between the regions of Europe will lead to false conclusions when the approach is applied in different areas. Secondly, it is not clear whether the Commission considers that organic farming should be the future model for agriculture to be applied throughout the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we should de-mystify organic farming. I do not wish to remind anyone of the case of nitrophenol. Natural products and natural processes tend to be mistakenly equated to environmental protection. Petroleum, strychnine, hemlock and even anthrax are natural substances, but it is unacceptable to introduce these into the environment. Organic farming uses natural products but this does not mean it is the most desirable form of farming or the most desirable in every case. There is no mention of Community policy on integrated production in the Commission’s proposal either. This is an important type of production that cannot be overlooked, especially as regards the use of plant protection products. The proposal does not take account of our ability to significantly reduce the use of pesticides through the use of genetically modified organisms. This would of course require fully transparent regulations to ensure there would be no negative repercussions. Lastly, I would like to highlight another issue the Commission has failed to deal with. There is no reference to the approach to be followed in establishing appropriate indicators to measure the effectiveness of the different courses of action to ensure the objectives set out in the Commission’s document are met. Ladies and gentlemen, all these provisions should also apply to the candidate countries and to all countries trading with the European Union. – Mr President, when approximately a year ago we voted here on this Parliament's report at first reading and we achieved a sufficient majority to support the thesis I was advocating, I felt as if I had the strong support of the whole of Parliament. I was advocating that this Parliament needed to demonstrate political firmness in relation to the proposed Forest Focus Regulation, which the Commission was presenting as a replacement for the two former regulations on pollution: combating pollution in Europe and combating fires in Europe. The proposed law presented by the Commission added to these two objectives – ‘pollution’ and ‘fires’ – the study of biodiversity, climate change and carbon retention. The Commission said that all of this had to be done with less money – with EUR 51 million – and that, furthermore, the prevention aspect of combating fires would be transferred to rural development. In this way, this Parliament abandoned codecision for a mere opinion, without being able to control whether these programmes were going to be complied with or not, since they were being left to the Member States and were being transferred to a regulation whose control by Parliament was reduced to an opinion. This Parliament was not therefore politically able to accept that proposal, nor could it accept it when the Council’s common position was communicated and discussed and a small effort was made, of half a million euros, increasing the sum from EUR 13 million to EUR 13.5 million, which represented a minimal effort in terms of assessing our forests. It is not sufficient to say that we believe in them, but rather our support should be reflected in a greater budgetary increase, in a greater effort, since this is the only regulation we have for our forests. We have held numerous meetings, both with the Council and the Commission, in order to reach an agreement and in order that this may become a significant commitment, and this is going to be achieved tomorrow in this Parliament, God willing. A proposal has been received from the Council and accepted in Coreper, which takes account of those principal and priority needs which Parliament had described at first reading. Article 1 places the prevention of fires on an equal footing with the other objectives of the Forest Focus Regulation. Article 13 sets a budgetary increase, not the amount we would have liked, but sufficient so that we could reach agreement amongst all the Member States, increasing it to EUR 61 million until 2006; in Article 18, Member States are urged to present an assessment of the Regulation before the end of 2005, and the Commission to present new proposals from 2006. By means of this agreement, reached amongst the majority of political groups in this House, I hope that tomorrow we will be able to close this regulation at second reading and provide political impetus for European construction. It was very difficult for the countries of the European Union, especially those which have been ablaze this summer – in all corners of Europe, but essentially the countries of the south – to understand why prevention should not be included in this regulation. The fact that it has been introduced on an equal footing is a cause of satisfaction for us and I would essentially like to thank the Commission, the Commissioner and Marie Claude Blin, for their efforts in reaching this agreement; I would also like to thank the Council, which has worked hard so that we may reach this agreement, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups, who have moved forward so that this agreement would be possible at second reading and so that we would resolve an issue which presented us with a serious problem: combating fires. . – Mr President, we are examining two reports, one on traceability and labelling of food and feed products produced from genetically modified organisms and the other on genetically modified food and feed. These matters must be resolved in order to put an end to the Council moratorium on genetically modified organisms. It is no easy task to reconcile the different priorities that must be taken into consideration – first, consumers right to information; secondly, the priority of health and the environment; and thirdly, the functioning of the internal market – and yet this is essential. It leaves me speechless, however, to hear things like genes entering the environment. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that a little more rigour in the interventions would not go amiss. I am not aware of any gene that has escaped in this way and flown out into the environment. We need to be rigorous and serious, we need to adopt the two proposals made by the Commission, which I think are quite reasonable, and try to adapt our proposal to what the market and consumers need. The first priority has to be keeping consumers informed and giving them the ability to choose. The second priority must be a health guarantee. The third priority is that we must always respect the freedom of the internal market and require of third countries what we are prepared to require of ourselves. We cannot have separate legislation and our consumers cannot be inundated with unlabelled genetically modified organisms from other countries because we are incapable of imposing our legislation on the international bodies. Mr President, I know that I am exceeding my time limit, but please allow me a little flexibility, as no other Members from my Group are going to speak. I would also like to say that labelling does not mean greater safety. Nor do I believe that it is the responsibility of Parliament, as a political parliament, to lay down a standard stipulating 0.5% or 0.3%. It should be a management committee that sets this parameter, which must be quantifiable. Lastly, … – Mr President, Commissioner, at this point in the debate I am not going to enter into a discussion of the Dary report, nor discuss its fundamental points, but I do wish to say that the official position of the PPE Group is in support of the entire Dary report. That is the official position. Commissioner, your proposal does not accord with the objectives nor resolve the problems being suffered by the banana industry and politically it is not worthy of our producers. Mr Schwaiger recognised this a moment ago. Nor does the Commission’s proposal comply with our international commitments. However, the most serious problem is that, immersed in difficult negotiations with the World Trade Organisation, we are showing publicly, in black and white, where our weak points lie. Therefore, Commissioner, I ask you to  to this Parliament – not simply to hear us – and to take note of the directions indicated in the Dary report and the opinions of the two competent committees. This Parliament is sending you a very clear political message, unanimously from the committee responsible in this area, and I hope that this House will support it by a majority. Judging by the great political sensitivity which you have always shown, I am sure that you will understand that message. Furthermore, I am sure that you will find a viable route in the direction indicated. Therefore, Commissioner, act politically, find a solution and listen to this Parliament. This is not the time to fail to take account of this House. – Mr President, firstly I would like to congratulate Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert on the report and the urgency with which she has carried it out. I would like to stress to the Commission – which only now is delivering us a document which was drawn up at the end of October – that Parliament has had to work against the clock. In fact, we only have a few days before the expiry of the deadline for the most recent extension of the deferral of the Regulation whose derogation by the Commission we are going to vote on. This deadline expires on 1 January of the coming year. Therefore, I would ask the Commission – so as not to repeat all the arguments expressed by the previous speakers – to send us documents more quickly so that we do not have to work against the clock. I would like to stress once again that the consumers do not want BST. Consumers refuse to accept the idea of cows producing milk containing BST. This hormone is never used for medicinal reasons. It is only used to produce more milk, and this can cause us problems, since we have a surplus of dairy products. Furthermore, problems may arise with regard to our agriculture, as well as negative reactions to it and there may be contradictions in our new Community Agricultural Policy guidelines. I would also like to point out to the Commission that it must continue to investigate the possible effects of BST on consumers’ health. At the moment they do not seem to be harmful, but nor do they seem to be entirely harmless. Therefore, Commissioner, Parliament, which is working rigorously and is taking its work ever more seriously, requests that you do not make us work against the clock and that, furthermore, you take account of the reactions and proposals which we make, which often end up in the waste paper bin. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to congratulate Mrs Jeggle on the report that she has produced, on the work she has done and on having achieved the practically unanimous support of the Committee on Agriculture for her report. I would also like to congratulate the Commission on having included a multiannual element in the proposals. Nevertheless, although this is a little repetitive, I would like you to bear in mind and reconsider, with regard to cereals, both moisture content and the monthly price reviews, since they are issues which could cause us considerable harm. There is also another question, and I feel that harsh words are required: every time a problem arises in this European Union or in its political positions – positions which I do not question – we consider taking funds away from the agricultural budget. This issue is of serious concern to us, since the Commissioner for Budgets has repeated that she intends to take EUR 300 million away from sugar to send to Kosovo. There are also other matters which I would like to stress, which do not appear in the proposal on prices, such as my concern for the nut sector, hazelnuts and almonds, which is facing such great problems at the moment, since, in some cases, the improvement plans implemented by the Commission are coming to an end. Since its review is not finished, and until the problem of the nut industry is resolved, an extension of these improvement plans should be reconsidered, until its correct place is found, which should be the COM in fruits, where it will be treated in a genuinely differentiated fashion. Other issues of concern to me do not appear, such as the case of asparagus intended for processing. Article 10(3) of the Regulation on processed fruits and vegetables provides for lump sum aid. This aid is going to stop very soon; it comes to an end during this season. How does the Commission intend to ensure that, in Europe, this aid is used to promote competitiveness and continues to be given to asparagus producers? With regard to table grapes, on 31 July aid expires for the production of juice, which is included in the COM in wine. In my opinion, it should be included in the next amendment of the COM in fruits. Once it has expired however, that is, from 31 July, what are we going to do, until the new reforms are approved, about the aid for table grape processing? Will it be extended? What is the intention here? Regulation No 2275 also provides for aid for promotion in the flower and plant sector, and this aid is also coming to an end. How can this happen, given that the Council has asked the Commission to carry out a study on the evolution of the aid, in order to justify whether or not it should continue? I believe that, while waiting for this study to be presented – and we still know nothing about it – and then for a reform to be proposed, Regulation No 2275 should perhaps be extended. Does this fit in with the Commission’s plans? They are important sectors because they affect very specific areas. –Mr President, I have to point out to the Commission that it is not an amendment by the rapporteur, but an amendment by the Committee on Agriculture and, therefore, it is voted on in committee and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it cannot be withdrawn. Also, Amendment No 5, which would cause No 4 to lapse – which is the one that I hope the Commission will accept – only affects the Commission, not the Council. Its content is already regulated by the new Regulation 2390/99, which will be coming into force. Furthermore, the amendment does not include any additional obligation for the Commission. Therefore, I hope that the Commission will accept it, because we have provided all the means for this proposal to be approved at first reading. – Mr President, I am not going to spend or waste part of my time responding to or criticising any of the Member States who are or are not complying with the legislation, but I would like to ask the Commissioner a series of specific question on the issue of harmonisation. If the Member States are required, and I am in agreement with this, Commissioner, to comply with the rules that are dictated from here, those rules need to be clear and the same for everybody. What level of compliance can be demanded when we are talking about applying tests? A period of 30 months is imposed on the Member States and they agree to it, but there are, however, some Member States that already apply a period of 24 months. What guarantees are being offered to consumers? Do you not think that this issue causes considerable alarm and insecurity among consumers? The same could be said about the issue of removing the vertebral column, on the subject of risk materials. There is only talk of removing the vertebral column for two Member States and for animals of more than 30 months. There are exceptions for some Member States, but what are they? And what is the reason for them? Why, on 7 February of this year, did the Standing Veterinary Committee carry out the evaluation for removing the vertebral column from animals of more than 12 months? Where is the harmonisation? It is very difficult, Commissioner, for safety assurances to be given to consumers with regard to beef when there is legislative dysfunction. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report unanimously approved in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 25 April on Community measures for the control of classical swine fever proposes an early diagnosis system and maintenance of the Community method for controlling the disease and slaughter, since not enough progress has yet been made on marker vaccines. The reason for applying a policy of non-vaccination is based on the fact that in the event of infection vaccinated pigs may become carriers of the virus, especially pregnant sows, which may not show signs of the disease but may transmit it horizontally to the other pigs on the farm and vertically to their progeny, which may include persistently infected piglets. In addition, as regards the differentiation of animals that have been vaccinated or have had the disease and generated antibodies, this differentiation between vaccinated and infected animals is not yet reliable. Research will have to continue into this until these marker vaccines are effectively reliable and we are able to use differential methods that indicate whether the animals have been vaccinated or have had the disease. This legislation improves certain prophylactic rules, clarifies definitions and proposes the inclusion of the ‘Diagnostic Manual’ as an annex to the Directive. In addition, the amendments introduced refer to animal welfare standards on the farm and during transport, and emergency solutions are proposed for cases of serious health crises which prevent animal movements for long periods, such as buying-in schemes, which the Commission has certainly never done before. It is also proposed that this health legislation should extend to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and that they should be included in the plans to control classical swine fever. Several amendments to this document have been tabled which your rapporteur feels deserve some comment. There is one amendment, No 34, tabled by Mr Mulder on behalf of the ELDR Group, which seems logical, but given that the health control authorities are national, trying to divide up the European Union into regions that belong to different countries and do not coincide with national borders seems unfeasible. I would ask Mr Mulder, who is present, whether the Dutch will be able to control German farms or whether the Germans will control Dutch farms. I do not think either side will agree to this. Amendment No 35, tabled by Mr Mulder, goes against both my feelings and the spirit of the report. If the animal is not eliminated, vaccination will not eliminate the virus and the marketing of meat from vaccinated animals in the European Union would mean less safety for our consumers than for those of third countries. We would in principle be unable to export, and anyway this news in the press would ruin the industry. Fresh meat from vaccinated animals carries the virus and may infect healthy animals that feed on swill containing it. I therefore cannot accept Amendment No 35. As for Amendment No 36, also tabled by Mr Mulder, we again come up against the subject of co-financing, and I am also against it. There are two other amendments: Nos 33, tabled by Mr Böge on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, and 37, tabled by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. These two amendments go a little beyond what I could have imagined, since in my country the use of swill has been banned for more than twenty years. Nevertheless, in this very House, Amendment No 102 in the Paulsen report, reviewed in this very part-session, was approved and I do not want to go against the feelings of this House. I therefore understand that both Amendment No 33 and Amendment No 37 are acceptable because they may lead us to a more realistic solution to the animal feed control problem. – Mr President, Commissioner, at this point in the debate I am going to insist on certain aspects which, from an agronomic point of view, and since I come from a southern country, I consider to be absolutely essential to this directive. These include, for example, costs and transfers. With regard to costs, I would like clarification of what costs we are talking about. Are we talking about the distribution and sourcing of water? Are we talking about the quality of the distribution networks? Are we talking about the nature of the works required to provide water services? Or are we talking about large-scale hydraulic works and reservoirs? All these costs added together would be horrendous and would have repercussions for the agricultural sector. Transfers are defined as the transfer of surface water between different territorial areas. Is the Commissioner aware that our country has one of the oldest systems of transfers in Europe? They already existed in ancient times: they had them in Roman times, although on a smaller scale. One of the most significant transfers – the Tajo-Segura transfer – which has been in use for many years, almost 30 years, has an allowance of 658 hm3 per year. The largest volume transferred in one year has been 453 and the average volume over twenty years has been over 200. We cannot be accused of bad management. Is the Commissioner aware that, of this 263 hm3, we used 25 for irrigation on the left bank of the Levante, 30 for water supplies in the area of the Júcar, 7 for supplies in the southern area of the Júcar and the rest in the Segura, equally divided between supplies and irrigation? We are not doing a bad job of management. We cannot be prohibited from carrying out transfers when our economy and the development of our regions depend on it. I will not tackle the issue of quality and the best available technologies, because I believe that we will return to a discussion of this directive. Take good note: in this diverse Europe, which we are building in a spirit of mutual cooperation, we have to find diverse solutions, not single solutions. I therefore appeal to the common sense of the Commission, the Council and this House so that, when voting, they do not impose uniformity on the different countries of Europe in areas where subsidiarity is required. Commissioner, Andalusia is not Lapland. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Dary, who has given us such a full explanation of the reform, its history and development – which I am not going to repeat. I would also like to congratulate Mr Fernández, who has made such good use of his time to make us consider the fact that we have a series of commitments to fulfil. The Dary report is a difficult and intricate piece of work which is worthy of praise, and has allowed us to unanimously approve a report on a truly complex issue. Commissioner, it is frankly no easy task to bring together the interests of consumers with those of producers, as well as respecting the European Union’s international commitments to the ACP countries and the Lomé commitments signed in Cotonou, and also to combine efforts in favour of the outermost regions, while respecting the GATT rules for third countries and safeguarding diversity in European Union supply and production. The workings of the compromise that has been reached, which comes within the WTO rules, must be studied by the European Commission in a report which will have to be studied by Parliament within a reasonable time limit and, in accordance with the result of that report and the study made of it, the appropriate corrective measures will have to be proposed, as Mr Dary’s report suggests. We are not opposed to the ‘tariff only’ system, Commissioner, we only wish, given these sudden changes, to take the necessary precautions when it comes to making the leap from one system to another. I therefore ask the Members of this House to endorse this report in its entirety, as did the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I am not going to say again that amendments such as the only one tabled by a certain Member do not help to achieve this. I, like the previous speaker, therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn. –  Mr President, Commissioner, as Mr van Dam said, there are still many people left in Korea. It is estimated that there are currently between 650 000 and 700 000 people from the European Union who are going to return to their countries of origin, and there was foot and mouth disease in Korea very recently. Council Directive 72/462 on health and veterinary inspection problems upon importation of bovine, ovine and caprine animals and swine, fresh meat or meat products from third countries, does not apply to meat that forms part of the personal luggage of those tourists, insofar as it does not exceed 1 kg., belongs to the bovine or swine species, is fresh meat and is for personal consumption. Therefore, if we know that the foot and mouth virus can be transmitted by food carried by tourists that has been made with contaminated meat, and that it can be carried by the human body, which can be a vector even if it is not affected, as Mr van Dam also said, there is currently a degree of laxity in the inspections being conducted in the Member States, at the borders of the European Union, both external and internal, and even more so at the airports. These shortcomings have been highlighted in the report by the Commission’s Food and Veterinary Office, which points out these serious defects in the inspections of imported food and animals. Parliament therefore asks the Commission to urge the Member States to conduct more rigorous inspections at airports, to conduct a major information campaign among all tourists who have been to that part of the world regarding the risks that exist on their return, based on the International Animal Health Code; and for there to be a signed acceptance of responsibility in order to authorise entry to the European Union if they are coming from a country that has not been clear of the disease for at least three months. As the matches are finishing on 30 June and people are returning, the Commission should, as a matter of urgency, put forward a suitable administrative and legislative process containing the strictest possible standards to be applied to inspections at borders, similar to those that are being applied in other third countries, to ensure that foot and mouth disease is not reintroduced into the European Union. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the Commission on their balanced proposal, both in the directive and in the regulation on the monitoring of zoonoses and zoonotic agents, which we will be voting on in Parliament tomorrow. These are matters of great importance for all EU States. For some EU States these are not only matters of great importance, but of the utmost importance. I would like to express my great concern at the result of the vote on the report presented in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, given that, in my opinion, it takes our concern for consumers’ health to irrational extremes. We are all worried about the health implications of salmonella – as Mrs Paulsen has just pointed out – even more so in countries such as Spain, Greece, Italy, Portugal and France, that are particularly exposed to this danger due to the volume of livestock susceptible to infection as a result of average temperatures that favour its propagation and of another set of circumstances that are not worth going into now. However, I do not understand that, on the pretext of protecting consumers’ interests, some EU countries support the extension of control and surveillance measures to agents that cannot be transmitted to humans, in other words, non-zoonotic agents that do not fall within the scope of these regulations. The only types of salmonella that affect humans are  and , and to extend Community regulation to other types, more than twelve, in fact, will only, in my opinion, cause serious commercial consequences that would penalise the aforementioned EU countries and small producers. Producers in northern Europe, where the incidence of salmonella is virtually zero due to the climatic conditions there, would not be affected by this move. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore call on you to support the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which includes the sentiments of many countries that have expressed their concern in this regard in all the debates that have been held, both in Council of Ministers and Commission’s working groups. This amendment guarantees consumer safety, given that it includes all the improvements proposed by the European Commission, yet penalises no one. I regret that the report approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Heath and Consumer Policy has not taken the main countries affected into consideration and I hope that this situation will be resolved, if not in tomorrow’s plenary, then in the negotiations in the next Progress Council and in the negotiations that will have to be undertaken as part of the codecision procedure, given that these measures will be hard to achieve. I also regret that there are a series of gaps that have not been sufficiently analysed in Parliament, such as, for example, the loophole mentioned in Article 9 of the Regulation, which anticipates the paralysis of trade in those countries whose national control programmes are not approved. This initiative could give rise to a situation of clear commercial discrimination. The report approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, in my opinion, has not been sufficiently tailored to the needs of each country and also falls into this trap. . – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are now dealing with the second reading of Regulation (EEC) No 2158/92 on the protection of forests against fire and Regulation (EEC) No 3582/86 on the protection of forests against atmospheric pollution. This latter Regulation, which established a framework for the observation, assessment and monitoring of damage to European forests, provided for a network of observation points, carrying out a periodic inventory of damage and publishing an annual report, as well as an additional network for the monitoring and control of the pilot demonstration projects. The general tendency we have seen is an increase in the deterioration of non-coniferous species such as oak and beech and intense defoliation owing to the seriousness of atmospheric pollution, essentially in Central Europe, which also increases the acidity of the soil. Atmospheric deposits cause serious concentrations of nitrates in the soil and increase the risk of drinking water pollution, thereby threatening the role played by forest soils in the filtration of water resources. The budget for this Regulation in the Commission’s proposal is reduced from EUR 40 million for the first five-year period to EUR 34 million for the second five-year period, from 1997 to 2001. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is once again proposing an increase in the budgetary contribution to EUR 44 million, in line with the increase in forested area and the cost of living. There is no doubt about the usefulness of the programme and the monitoring networks, and to strengthen them would mean a huge increase in the service which the forests offer to European society as a whole. With regard to Regulation (EEC) No 2158 on the protection of forests against fire, an action framework was established to reduce the number of fires and the surface area affected by them, providing for the co-funding of fundamentally preventive actions. In particular, these include the creation of protection infrastructures, such as firebreaks, forest tracks, water points, etc., as well as an improvement in systems for monitoring and identifying the causes of fires. Article 10 of this Regulation provides for a contribution of EUR 70 million for the period 1992-1995, whereas the proposal presented for 1997-2001 considers that EUR 50 million is sufficient. In other words, EUR 10 million per year. As well as contradicting the Council’s recommendations to the Commission in points 5 and 6 of the forestry strategy for the European Union on the possibility of improving Community measures for forest protection, this reduction goes against common sense, given that since 1995, the date of the last enlargement, the forested area has increased from 21% to 36% of the total Community area, and I fail to see the balance in having more forest to protect and less money to protect it. The amendments therefore propose increasing the budget to EUR 77 million, which I believe to be fully justifiable, and which we must not give up on under any circumstances, since at stake is the protection of the landscape, of nature, of biodiversity, of traditional cultures and multifunctional activities and, at the end of the day, of what we see when we close our eyes and think of forests. In Europe, 60 million hectares are stated to be at risk of fire. The Commission’s proposal suggests EUR 0.16 per hectare. Parliament is requesting EUR 0.23 per hectare. The difference is EUR 0.07 per hectare. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking aboutpeanuts in relation to the protection of our forests, and we are being refused even this amount. There is a special mention in the report, which I do not want to leave out, of the Mediterranean forests which are much more seriously affected by fire, since they are located in hot areas, with long periods of drought, and are also seriously affected by desertification. We must pay special attention to this issue in order to adequately weigh up the different actions relating to the forests: prevention, improvement, conservation and the restoration of burnt areas and forestation. I therefore ask the Commission to declare its acceptance of these arguments in the coming proposals so that the Members of this Parliament can accept this report at this second reading. – Mr President, Commissioner, in the first place, I would like to offer some background information which seems to me to be useful, although some of it has already been mentioned. The European Audiovisual Observatory, as has been said, was set up in 1992, under the initial auspices of the Audiovisual Eureka programme. At that time it was laid down – and I quote – that “the aim of the Observatory will be to improve the transfer of information within the audiovisual industry and promote a clearer vision of the market, as well as greater transparency. Specifically the task of the Observatory will consist of collecting and processing information and statistics relating to the audiovisual sector”. Furthermore, in 1997, the European Council commented on the Observatory by saying: “Its services must be directed principally towards the needs of the professionals in the industry”. Therefore, on this basis, Commissioner and Mr President, I wish to ask both the Commission and the Observatory itself to remain faithful to this founding principle. Although it is not the case with the Observatory, there currently exists a tendency towards the easy option. Let me explain: it is a reality that many structures and organisations end up tied to their public funding body, and this situation tends to take them away from their objective, which in this case is public service and assistance for professionals in the audiovisual sector. Many people have not heard of the Observatory. For this reason, I believe it to be appropriate, on the one hand, that the Observatory makes a greater effort to attract the interest of professionals, substantially reducing their increasing dependency on the request for their services on the part of the Commission. In that way their resources would be increased through the provision of services to professionals and greater autonomy would be achieved. This requires objectives and efforts. On the other hand, it would be suitable for the Commission to obtain, from external specialists, a periodic review of the efficiency and acceptance of the Observatory’s services amongst professionals, for example, by means of surveys. – Mr President, I believe that the work carried out by the Commission and also by the rapporteur, Mr Veltroni, contains many important elements. It is clear that a great effort has been made to introduce new issues and to take new steps in European audiovisual policy. However, I believe that we still have a lot to do on certain points, both in the Commission and in Parliament. We are very much lagging behind in relation to the huge changes taking place in the audiovisual sector, particularly as a result of digitalisation. To fail to act would be like an ostrich burying its head in the sand. I am sure that that is not what we want. We all know that digitalisation began about five years ago and therefore this work on audiovisual policy is timely to say the least. There are five points I would like to highlight because I believe that sooner or later they will have to be reviewed: First is the definition of public service. This is important if we want to have a public service in Europe in an environment which is truly competitive – and this can be seen from the audience for public services – and also for the good of the private audiovisual service. There are still many issues to be resolved: one of them is the separation of the requirements established for each of these. Secondly, it seems to me essential that there be a review of the “Television without Frontiers” Directive. In this respect we are behaving like the aforementioned ostrich. Thirdly, we must define in some way – and I believe that this document does not deal with this adequately – what is to happen with interactive TV services, what is to happen with the Internet on television. The fourth point refers to the transfer from analogue TV to digital TV and its consequences for users in terms of the use and acquisition of new terminals. Lastly, there is the implication of the laws on competition and mergers. The audiovisual policy should tackle these points and also go into more depth in the field of competition. – Mr President, I would also like to express my gratitude and congratulations for the work carried out both by the rapporteur, Mrs Palacio, and by those who have worked on it in the Council and the Commission. Of course, it is essential that we have a legal framework in place as soon as possible. However, I would like to make certain observations which may be useful in this second phase which is so necessary. We should not forget that the Internet is international. We are talking about a directive for the internal market, but, as its original name, the ‘World Wide Web’, suggests, it is international and we should bear this in mind as a fundamental reference, above all because the Internet is going to determine Europe’s economic position in the future, as well as its political position and its ability to influence the global, social and cultural environment. I therefore believe it is fundamental that we bear in mind that the bulk of this success stems from the creation of new companies, the creation of small- and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, in the review which is carried out, it is essential that we remember not only the consumers – who in any event must make their own decisions and must use mechanisms for encrypting and protecting their data in accordance with laws and with technology – but also the SMEs, because otherwise there will soon be little electronic commerce in Europe. It therefore seems essential to make a genuine effort to homogenise the rules of the internal market and, at the same time, work energetically to unify the principles applied on a global level with regard to electronic commerce. There is no point in having sound regulations for our internal market if we lose sight of the bigger picture. In order to achieve this, it is also important to bear in mind that the regulations of the country of origin are fundamental, since, without them, small- and medium-sized businesses would find it difficult to operate and would encounter obstacles to achieving their objectives, because they do not have access to the same resources as large companies. –  Mr President, as a Member representing the Balearic islands, I must acknowledge that what Mr Sturdy has said is true and, therefore, given that this is the Parliament that represents all European citizens, I would request that protection be afforded to these citizens, who are just as much citizens of the Balearics as the rest of us who were born there, who live there and who have Spanish nationality. I therefore ask the Presidency to send a written request to the regional authorities to help all these citizens to register, before 31 March, so that all European citizens are able to participate in these elections. –  Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I should like to congratulate the Commission and particularly the Commissioner on the various important initiatives being put forward for this sector. I should also like to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr Collins and Mr Schmitt, on their magnificent work and mention one idea that I feel is particularly important in this matter. The passenger protection dossier is, together with the single sky, safety and protection of the environment, an important dossier for air transport, for passengers and also for the image of European integration in the eyes of the public. We are all aware of the importance of this means of transport and also of the contradiction that exists between the Europe of the air and terrestrial Europe: whilst traditional borders are disappearing, we are seeing these borders persist in the air transport sector. Initiatives such as those that we are now discussing are, therefore, of great importance to the European public. I come from the Balearic Islands, where dependence on the aeroplane is, as you all know, extremely high. I know what it is to suffer airport chaos or interminable delays. I therefore welcome the Commission’s intention to seek a balance between legislation and the voluntary commitments affecting airlines, airports and airport authorities, not to mention the tourist industry. This is an ambitious communication, which seeks to achieve this balance between the needs to establish guarantees for passengers and to ensure that air transport is efficient and competitive. We must get the message across to users and make them fully aware of their rights, which are recognised by law when problems with flights occur. I regret the impasse in which many initiatives in this sector are trapped within the Council and I hope that the appropriate agreements will be concluded so that we can move ahead without any further delay. In the wake and in commemoration of the terrible accident that befell an aircraft en route from the Spanish city of Melilla, I should like to conclude by congratulating the Commission and Mr Schmitt on their work on the proposal to establish the European Aviation Safety Agency. Reports such as the one by Mr Schmitt will be able, if not to prevent, which is impossible, to considerably reduce the number of these terrible accidents. – Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, both the Commission’s communication and the rapporteur’s report, which is magnificent, are in line with the European Council of Lisbon, which asked the Commission for a series of specific proposals as soon as possible. It is now for the Council to take the necessary and urgent political decisions which will allow the single aviation market to be supplemented with a single air traffic control system. The growth in demand currently stands at between 5% and 7% and it seems that it will follow the same trend over the next few years. This makes it even more difficult for the European air management systems to do their work, since they have shown themselves to be incapable of dealing with this development and they are the cause of 50% of delays, although it is true that there are other causes, such as the limitations of the airports and flight schedules which do not take account of the limitations of the infrastructures. Another cause which makes the current system ineffective is the different organisation of the civil system and the military system, as well as the different standards of technical equipment on the ground. The airspace must be accessible under the same conditions for general, commercial and military aviation, which does not mean that we should not give priority, or indeed exclusive access, to the military in the event of crises. However, the mere fact that a crisis may occur does not mean that certain Member States can justify maintaining the conditions which prevailed during the cold war. It is necessary for the civil and military controllers in the control centres to work in close cooperation. There is a clear need to achieve more effective cooperation between the different users of the airspace, and I believe that that cooperation and a joint approach should be sought at European level. I congratulate the rapporteur and the Vice-President of the Commission for the opinions they share on an issue which is so important and so sensitive in the daily lives of our citizens. Mr Atkins’ report is detailed and balanced, and it presents the current and correct position of this House. Lastly, Madam Vice-President, please take note that we are aware of your efforts and we will support you in the line you have taken. – Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, following the Erika accident, the profound, and totally legitimate, concern of the European citizens and the urgent need to consolidate the Community legislation in the field of maritime safety became clear. This concern led to the Commission’s proposals and I would therefore now like to congratulate the Commission and its Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, since we have all witnessed the tenacity with which she has personally dealt with these issues. I also congratulate the rapporteurs on the wonderful work they have done, completing this package of measures. Ladies and gentlemen, during my intervention in the May part-session, I said that we could be relatively satisfied with the way we have responded to the expectations of our citizens, in trying to approve these initiatives as quickly as possible – in inverted commas – by Community standards. The Erika I package and future approval of the Erika II package will make it possible to create a genuine European area of maritime safety and must guarantee an optimum level of protection for the maritime environment and the European coastal regions. Today I simply wish to repeat part of what I said then, since the circumstances have not changed. This Parliament has shown its great interest throughout the negotiation process. We must now continue to work in this direction and promote the measures which are yet to be approved. We must not rest on our laurels and we must call on the Council so that progress can be made on the Erika II package and, in this respect, Commissioner, your role and your tenacity will be very important if we are to try to convince the Council once again, so that we may have the Erika II package more quickly. – Mr President, maritime safety is one of the challenges included in the Commission’s working programme for 2003. Unfortunately, we are currently facing the terrible accident involving the  off the coast of Galicia, which makes this working principle all the more evident. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Commission, by means of its Vice-President, on its rapid reaction and its cooperation with the Spanish and Galician authorities in relation to this dramatic event. I would also like to acknowledge the Commissioner for Transport and the European Parliament’s Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, who have approved the Erika I and Erika II packages, which, had they already been applied, could perhaps have helped us to prevent an accident of this nature. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Directive on the monitoring of traffic – yet to be transposed – in Article 20, lays down the definition of areas of refuge, which, although they are vague, would allow vessels with problems to reach them to try to resolve them. We have examples such as the , which was not authorised by the French authorities to enter the port of Saint Nazaire, or now the , not authorised to enter Galician ports, clearly due to the high ecological value of that coast. There should be further proposals for the creation of areas of refuge out to sea, sufficiently close so that vessels with problems can reach them and sufficiently far from coasts to prevent serious ecological problems, but which allow for immediate naval rescue actions with technical resources, both aerial and marine. And the measure, Madam Vice-President, if included in the Commission’s programme, could be applied urgently without the need to wait for transposition of the directive. – Commissioner, please allow me firstly to begin more or less at the end: I wish you all the luck in the world at the next ICAO Assembly. Please count on the support and backing of Parliament, and we hope that the European Union’s objectives on this issue are achieved. The European Union must be at the forefront by adopting a series of measures which do not only relate to the issue of this statement on air transport and the environment, but also to its effects on the quality of life of the citizens of the European Union. We must achieve some concrete and quantifiable objectives. And we must also achieve a timetable which makes realistic demands. Because otherwise, we will not achieve any of the objectives we have discussed so many times in committee relating to noise levels of aircraft, the situation – as Mrs Lucas has expressed very well – of the increase in the demand for air transport, the situation of certain airports which are not in a position to deal with the air traffic they are currently receiving, the measures proposed by you – by the Commission – such as taxes relating to noise, restrictions on the operation of certain types of aircraft within the European Union, or clear policies in relation to the use of land with regard to air transport. A second problem which I believe to be of concern is that of gas emissions. There is a lot of talk of the greenhouse effect, caused by CO2, when air transport could reduce its greenhouse emissions by between two and four times; I believe that, given the significance of this, we must take a clear and determined position in this regard. However, at the same time, neither can we forger what air transport has meant for the development of the Communities, for the economic development of the states and also for the quality of life of the citizens, for speed and for the opportunity to visit and discover other places. I believe that we need sensible, concrete and totally efficient measures which will genuinely improve the environment and the quality of life. – Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report which not only highlights the importance of the Structural Funds but also a series of problems. I would firstly likely to remind you that the objective of the Funds is to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the European Union and that, while it is true that the GDP per capita in the regions with the lowest rate increased by 9% between 1986 and 1996, over the same period the income per capita in the four poorest countries rose by 8%. Nevertheless, the difference when compared to the 25 richest regions continues to be the same: two and a half times. These figures should lead us to consider the fact that, while the level and quality of life in the poorest regions is increasing, we have not managed to reduce the disparities between the richest and the poorest regions of the European Union. A second factor is that only 10% of the interventions from the Funds correspond to local development measures, despite the fact that most population and poverty is found in urban centres. To this data we must also add a factor which will distort the statistics and will change the landscape of the European Union in the next few years, i.e. the incorporation of the new Member States. All of these issues point to the need for a series of criteria to be taken into account in the future. Firstly, we must leave room for prioritising the interventions relating to urban development. Secondly, we need to develop policies which will reduce the disparities between the richest countries and the poorest countries. Thirdly, we must show greater sensitivity towards phenomena which have been ignored in the European Union, such as insularity and isolation. Lastly, we must take account of all sections of the population with the real objective of creating ever more employment, especially in the least-favoured regions. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on his good report. I am not going to highlight the parts of the report on which we agree, but I would like to point out a couple of issues which worry me and also worry certain other Members. Firstly, I must say that I come from a group of islands in the Mediterranean – as the rapporteur well knows – and we have the impression that the large ports are being promoted, mainly the northern ports as opposed to the southern ports. The small ports, and mainly the ports in the outlying regions and the islands, are rather being left out of this promotion of marine transport. What I would like to see in this case is recognition for example, that it would be beneficial to apply to the ports the division which is carried out in the case of airports of different categories so that we can concentrate, not on the categories of ports, but on the specific projects. That is to say, the project that is being presented, its objectives and all the actions implemented within that project. I believe that would be the right approach. In our case, in the Balearic Islands – I come from Palma de Mallorca – the port of Palma would be included in the proposals in Mr Piecyk’s report, but other ports in the same islands would be left out and this would lend support to air transport. Air transport would become the best way to transport goods and passengers to certain islands and outlying regions. We are currently trying to promote marine transport as an alternative to air transport, and this is therefore an issue to be considered. Having made these points, which are differences of opinion rather than disagreements, it only remains for me to express our support for this report and to congratulate the rapporteur. –  Mr President, I would just like to say that I am pleased Mr MacCormick received his answer, but I feel that, before asking a question of this nature, given the harm he is causing to one of Europe’s major tourist destinations, the Balearic Islands, as a result of these inappropriate comments, we would have liked to have had the chance to ask a question, because I believe that the only thing the person Mr MacCormick is representing wanted was compensation and, given that the British company in charge of the trip did not pay up, they thought that the Spanish State should do so, causing damage to its image in the process, which I believe is inappropriate. . – Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for this report, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, for having accepted the majority of the amendments which this Committee has proposed in its opinion. I would also like to thank all the members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism for having accepted a series of points of view which the Committee on Legal Affairs believed were important because they would improve the report being produced by Parliament. Secondly, Madam Vice-President, please allow me to congratulate you as we have done on other occasions and on other diverse and varied reports, since, once again, you have dealt with a complicated and controversial issue, which may annoy certain sectors and groups affected, and have made a courageous proposal which, in certain cases, as you can see, we have reduced to a certain extent, although on other aspects we have proposed, if you like, some further detail and a degree of toughening of the proposal. We must acknowledge your work and your will to resolve issues so that the European citizens are much better covered and so that they gain confidence in air transport. Furthermore, this confidence, security and responsibility in the rules on air transport should also be extended to other areas of transport on which you have also made proposals and in which we have not reached the same level in terms of the internal market and liberalisation. We are dealing with a courageous proposal, from the Commission, the rapporteur and the Committee on Transport, which provides for a qualitative leap in the field of insurance. As both you and the rapporteur have indicated quite correctly, we are trying to give the citizens and users confidence and we are making our air transport competitive, and at the same time establishing a series of rules which indicate the route to be taken by air companies as well as the route to be taken by other States. None of these concepts should make us nervous. I believe we are taking the right approach and we must maintain it. We must improve the texts, we must propose innovative ideas such as this and you will always have our support, Madam Vice-President. I hope that Parliament will vote to ratify the proposal of the Committee on Transport, which I believe the Commission can accept, and I believe the Council will be capable of following us and that we will not find, as on other occasions, that in the end certain issues have been rather left behind and then we have all regretted it and have been obliged to resolve them hurriedly. – Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteurs, I would briefly like to point out, in relation to the reports that we are currently debating, and as we have seen previously, that we are holding a great debate with an important future in terms of the construction of Europe and also the construction of an enlarged Europe. We are dealing with Funds which were established at a particular moment when our objectives involved a policy of economic and social cohesion. On the one hand, this policy has clearly been successful but, on the other, we also see that differences remain, as the reports demonstrate. Does this mean that this policy has failed? I would say rather that it means that the policy is not only successful for the cohesion countries, for the poorest regions which are receiving significant aid, but also for other regions, in the wealthy countries, which do not receive the aid. In the end there is widespread movement throughout Europe and, by means of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, those regions of the richer countries end up benefiting from the aid, because technologies are being bought, because investments are being made by those countries in which technological progress is being made. That is perhaps the reason why the differences are being maintained, after the large amounts of aid and the great investments which have been carried out through the Cohesion Fund. We are now facing the problems relating to enlargement. Does the Cohesion Fund need to be modified? Will the poorer regions stop receiving it? Are the States which have so far been receiving aid going to stop doing so in favour of the new States? I believe that this is currently the great challenge for the Commissioner and for Parliament. I believe that the aid must be maintained, that we have to be imaginative and must ensure that the Funds continue to reach all the regions. Otherwise, the differences will increase. We must make an effort to ensure that the enlargement countries also become economic motors which will allow this policy of economic and social cohesion to eventually lead to a much more just and free Europe. We have seen recent examples of the results of poverty and fanaticism. – Mr President, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Sudre. I think that she has done a magnificent job and also that she has shown imagination, calm and a capacity to reach agreements and compromises in order to present a document to this Parliament and to the Commission which I think can be useful and effective. Commissioner, I think that you are perfectly aware of, and sensitive to, these issues, due to the fact that you come from a region with specific problems. There are three regions in Europe whose citizens face specific problems: mountain, island and the outermost regions. These citizens enjoy a positive and enriching diversity, and they demand to be given the right to enjoy the same opportunities as other citizens from continental regions. For this they need specific treatment, which is expressed through a will for durability in the series of measures. We cannot debate a whole series of circumstances and imagine that, once that ideal and idyllic point, let us call it, has been reached, it will no longer be necessary to adopt more measures for the treatment of these three areas and particularly of the outermost regions that we are discussing today. We want different treatment to be maintained. We want to continue to be an area – or areas, in this case – that requires specific treatment. The European Union and you, Commissioner, need to be aware that this treatment is worth sustaining. This is the message that I wanted to put across, as well as once again congratulating Mrs Sudre and all the members of the various committees, which have enabled us to get as far as this report today. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Mastorakis. I believe that his work has been serious and responsible and that furthermore he has been able to bring together a consensus within the committee which has meant that today we are able to hold a debate and approve during this plenary a report which has been difficult and complicated and which has been drawn up as a result of his work and I believe that this achievement deserves credit. At the same time, if you will allow me, Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the Vice-President on behalf of my group, since if one thing characterises the work over these years, it is reflected in this report: it has been a challenge which stems from the problems relating to accidents off European coasts and a challenge from the public, and it is work which has resulted in the creation of various safety agencies (at the moment we are witnessing the creation of the Maritime Safety Agency) and furthermore it is a shared challenge, supported by the parliamentary committee. Furthermore, I believe the really positive thing is that, in her work, the Vice-President has the trust of the parliamentary committee and this takes the form – if we look back at events over these three years – of the support she has received for her management and her projects, which in many cases have been controversial and complicated. As I have said, together with this agency, we are trying to adopt one of the multiple measures proposed by the Commission to respond to a European public demand: safety at sea. And we now have a challenge; that that agency should function transparently and efficiently, but that it should not only function in relation to the two important challenges – that of the safety of sea transport, including passenger and coastal shipping, and that of the protection of the marine environment – but also in relation to those small details and areas which are not apparently as essential as the big issues, such as recreational boating – including the issue of jet skis and speed-boats which cause concern amongst the citizens of Europe. I believe that the agency is able to respond to these questions. Finally, I believe that this response should be a quick one so that the work of the Commission and the work of Parliament are shown to be connected and capable of responding to the concerns of the European citizens. – Mr President, we could classify the speeches made in the course of this debate into two categories: firstly, those which view the problem from a European perspective and which propose actions to be implemented through European and Community policy and, secondly, those which, at this time of human tragedy, tragedy for a country, which is five months from an election, believe that this is an opportunity to gain electoral advantage without considering what the real consequences for these people are. There has been talk of a temporary committee of inquiry, in accordance with Rule 150 of the European Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, which must be justified on the grounds of non-compliance with European legislation. What grounds have we heard here? To know what has happened; clearly we all want to know what has happened, but we are not going to achieve this through a parliamentary committee. We will be told this in the reports of the experts and that is why the PPE-DE Group’s proposal is that it should be the Commission that informs the Council and Parliament by means of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. Assessing the damage; criticisms are being made, although the time limit for assessing damage ends on 23 January, but today, at the beginning of December, the Spanish State is being criticised for not having assessed the damage. Measures to be adopted; Spain has adopted measures. Coordinating 10 000 volunteers, coordinating the work of the institutions, coordinating international aid; what is coordinating all of this are the measures that have been adopted. Mobilise the European institutions; yesterday we had a meeting with Commissioner Barnier, during which he acknowledged the talks and contacts he had had with the Spanish Government. The fishermen are being paid, aid is arriving. Therefore, what are the justified grounds? They do not exist. Simply a will to criticise for political reasons in view of the elections, and this is neither the forum nor the place, and you will not find us participating. You will find us helping the Galicians, you will find us helping the Spanish and saving these coasts. That is what we are working on. –  Madam President, in a short intervention on this matter, I would like to ask Mr Swoboda not to make this kind of racist and xenophobic statement. It is to the Arab world, to Arabic culture, that Europe today owes its entire Greek heritage; it is to the Arab world that it owes all its understanding of Greek culture. Mr Swoboda, please stop using this kind of language, because I do not think that it has any place in today’s Europe. – Mr President, I must congratulate the rapporteur on her report as I appreciate and have seen for myself the great effort she has put into this difficult task, even though we disagree on some of the points contained in the document. I would like to begin by stressing that I come from a region which does not meet Objective 1 criteria. It never has been an Objective 1 region, and never will be. My region is an Objective 2 region. That said, I would also like to point out that in the past, this House heard from leaders with a vision of the future who set courses of action leading to the growth and development of a European policy for union, based on a policy of social cohesion. What we are experiencing today is not however in line with that approach. I am particularly alarmed by the plans to reduce the growth and development of social cohesion policies. I would go so far as to say that these are penny-pinching plans. To date, social cohesion has been at the heart of policy within the European Union. It is, at the very least, surprising that reference is made to minimum percentages when there are regions exceeding the 200 GDP level. As the Vice-President rightly said, what we are about is ensuring there will be no more poor regions. We should encourage all European regions to involve themselves in the cohesion-building process. We must prevent any increase in differences. The last report demonstrated that whilst it is true that the poorest regions have achieved growth in percentage terms, the richer regions have grown at least as much. That is another issue to be studied. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe this is a problem to be resolved in the future, and not now, as currently proposed. . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as you all know, the objective of the Cohesion Fund is to contribute to economic and social cohesion and at the same time reduce regional and social disparities, through solidarity amongst the Member States. Thanks to this fund, numerous countries of the European Union have had the opportunity to try to lessen the distance between themselves and the wealthier countries, and the results have been spectacular but insufficient. The income per capita has increased from two thirds to three quarters of the Community average and the participation of the European funds in the growth of each of these four countries stood at an average of 0.5% per year. However, we should point out two problems for the future. Firstly, the incorporation of new countries, which means that the countries which currently benefit from the Cohesion Fund may find that they will no longer be in receipt of those Funds before they have achieved the objectives of real convergence. In this respect, we should consider a series of programmes for the future which will allow the new Members to achieve convergence with the European Union while, at the same time, the four countries which receive Cohesion funds should continue to receive them so that they can achieve the true objectives of convergence, growth and the generation of full employment. Secondly, another problem is the temptation of some wealthier countries to penalise those countries which, since they receive Cohesion Funds, have achieved nominal convergence on the basis of serious, responsible, sympathetic and rigorous structural and economic policies, but clearly still without achieving true convergence, by eliminating them, in this case, from the Cohesion Fund, which could give rise to two possible situations. Firstly, they may opt for less rigorous and more inflationist policies in order not to lose those funds. Secondly, growth and convergence with the other countries of the European Union may come to a halt in some countries. It would therefore be good to distinguish, Commissioner, between true convergence and nominal convergence. Lastly, I would like to take up a series of recommendations regarding the Cohesion Fund. Firstly, we should make greater investment in the railways, ports and maritime transport. Secondly, transport aimed at the integration of peripheral regions, islands and outlying areas should become a priority. Thirdly, we should pay greater attention to sustainable means of transport. Fourthly, we need to take more action in the field of reforestation and land reclamation. Fifthly, we must tackle the problem of the treatment of residues and solid waste. Lastly, as we pointed out previously, we need more investment in urban centres. I would also like to point out that, tomorrow, four amendments will be presented, two of them approved in committee as well as two new ones which are before the House. My position – the reasons for which I have explained in committee – is not to accept them, since in general terms they simply propose new criteria. We are talking about the Cohesion Fund and the 1998 audit, on which there is a regulation and criteria which have already been approved for 2000-2006 and we do not believe that this is the moment to change the criteria with regard to eligibility and the distribution of those funds. –  Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, first of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Lisi, because I have seen and experienced the intensity with which he prepared his report. It is a difficult report, given that, as we can see, it raises several points which run counter to the Commissioner’s proposal, whereas this committee has generally shared the Commissioner’s criteria. And in this case, we can see that there are certain discrepancies between the Commission proposal and what is now being suggested by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. I would also like to congratulate the Commissioner, because, regardless of the discrepancies that have been highlighted in the debate today, it was clear from the Commission debate that great courage was required to address a number of requirements from European citizens and users concerning the airlines. And although we do not currently agree, and we do not share the proposals made by the Commission, it has forced us to discuss the subject and try to align our positions. I would also like to say that no sector can or should try to survive on subsidies or by abusing its users. There is no future in that. We are facing – as the sector is aware – the need to restructure the sector. We need to tell the sector that it has one last chance, that we do not agree with the Commission proposals, that we should improve and strengthen previous proposals, make previous proposals stricter, but that the sector must move with the times; it must change, modernise and be able to respond. Otherwise, the citizens, who are our voters, are going to require us to be capable of defending their rights. At the same time, we must also try – and this is the message of the Parliamentary committee – to reach out to the sector during the difficult process of restructuring and modernisation. This is a difficult, complicated economic sector, and we are reaching out to it. I understand the difficulties involved and congratulate both the rapporteur and the Vice-President on having the courage to address this matter. –  Good morning, Mr President. Firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the Members who have presented amendments. I believe that the words of Mr Medina Ortega have clarified the approach and position which the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has agreed unanimously, on this essential issue, an issue which is important for the Canary Islands, but which affects all the other outermost regions of the European Union. With reference to the subject of today’s debate, the Canary Islands, I must say that few regions have lived or are living through such an intense process of European integration. Since their incorporation in 1986, the Canary Islands have held significant and intense debates. There have been public demonstrations for and against the full incorporation of the islands, there have been governmental crises and even the resignation of the President of an autonomous government, the specific cause of which was the conditions for the accession negotiations. After thirteen years, it is time to make an assessment. To this end the regulation which we are debating at the moment in Parliament is very useful, since from this assessment we can reach conclusions which will allow us to determine the position we must take. The assessment is clearly positive, although we must recognise that there are enormous worries and concerns attached to it, as the rapporteur has explained effectively. These concerns stem from what we are debating here, but also from other issues which are being studied and dealt with by this Parliament. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that at the moment in the Canaries there is a lot of uncertainty with regard to the future of bananas, since the Canary Islands are Europe’s top producer of that fruit, which is so important from economic, social, scenic and environmental points of view. However – and I repeat – today we are talking about Regulation 1911/91 concerning the application of Community Law to the Canary Islands. The arguments and explanations which the rapporteur has given us today are clear and describe the long journey made by the Canary Islands to arrive at the process of incorporation into the European Union. Nevertheless it is essential in our opinion that this reform is carried out within the time frame laid down. This is an absolutely essential issue. We should remember the mandate of the Cologne European Council to the Commission; we should remember that before the end of 1999 there was supposed to be specific and special treatment which has still not happened; we should remember that at the moment we are debating the Commission’s legislative agenda for 2000. It is important that in this legislative agenda we include the special treatments laid down in article 299.2 of the EC Treaty for the French overseas departments, the Azores, Madeira and the Canary Islands, because, otherwise, we would reach a situation or position in which these European regions, which are vital to each of the Member States and to the European Union, are put at an absolute disadvantage in relation to the European Union as a whole. To end, I would like to say that our Group supports the 19 amendments and the legislative text, but asks that we do not proceed to a second reading, but that this regulation be approved within the time limits laid down. We ask the Commission to be sensitive to the rapporteur’s views, to the views of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and that, please, the regulation be approved within the envisaged time limits because, otherwise, the situation in the Canary Islands would be of great concern. Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Miguélez Ramos, on her work and on her will to reach quick agreements so that a measure of this nature can be adopted speedily and thus be applied immediately. As some of my fellow Members have said quite rightly during the debate on this regulation, in view of the existence of terrorism we are faced with a series of dangers. We have adopted measures in this Parliament. We have adopted measures on the initiative of the Commission, which, in an active way, has been presenting proposals to us during this legislature for improving security in all forms of transport. We have adopted them and we are on the point of adopting them in the field of maritime transport. In the field of maritime transport we are concerned with international organised forms of terrorism, but there is also a form of terrorism which causes desolation internally, in cases such as Spain. This needs to be combated and measures need to be adopted, and that is what we are dealing with. It is clear that we are facing problems and that adjustments will have to be made, but improving our safety, improving traffic safety, improving security in ports is a necessity and an obligation which we must fulfil. I would therefore like to congratulate the Commissioner on her proposals and the rapporteur on her determination and will for these measures to be applied quickly. – Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is hard to string sentences together at this late hour. It is also hard to find anything further to say on a report like this one. The report was adopted unanimously in the parliamentary committee. The Vice-President has accepted the amendments tabled on behalf of the Commission. There is clear determination in the Council to ensure that the package is approved at first reading. In the light of such unanimity it is hard to find anything new to say on the report. Indeed, both the Vice-President and Mr Poignant have already given an overview of the current situation. Nonetheless, I should like to take this opportunity of thanking the European Commission’s officials and the Secretariat’s officials for their cooperation. I would also like to thank the members of my team who helped me work through this task. Commissioner, I am grateful to the Commission for accepting the amendments tabled by the parliamentary committee concerning Class C and D ships. I am also delighted that the amendments affecting persons with reduced mobility have been accepted. I believe particular sensitivity has been shown in both cases. The will to ensure that things work has been demonstrated too. In addition, there is an obvious desire to ensure that the standards are neither rigid nor strict, but that they are properly complied with and help to improve relations between human beings. Madam Vice-President, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to raise another issue with you. I believe the two reports on maritime safety we are debating today and are due to approve tomorrow are important. Nonetheless, as Mr Poignant rightly said, accidents will unfortunately continue to happen. The Commission has given abundant proof of its readiness to provide swift and effective responses to all kinds of situations. Parliament has also demonstrated that it is capable of rising to challenges when immediate solutions and responses are called for. The issue I have in mind is unrelated to these two reports, but it is currently giving rise to concern amongst many European citizens. I refer to the safety of pleasure craft at sea. You will recall that the matter has been raised with you in the past. I trust that in the wake of the success of the two reports debated today, you will in the near future present us with measures aimed at resolving this problem. It is a problem causing a great deal of damage and harm around the beaches of Europe. Commissioner, I could not miss the opportunity offered by a day like today, when Parliament unanimously approved two reports, and you accepted all the amendments tabled. I realise this is not the most opportune moment to do so, but I hope you will allow me the liberty of throwing this particular gauntlet down before you. Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Sterckx, as all of our colleagues have done in this plenary sitting. I have been a witness to the dedication, thoroughness and desire to gather all the information, seek solutions for the future and find consensus in the debate within Spain on the . However, allow me to make a few comments. Reference has been made here to the creation of a temporary committee to examine in detail the causes and consequences of the  disaster, dealing with the future and with maritime safety. Reference has been made to the inadmissibility at the present time of investigating this issue and examining it in detail as it violates the Treaties and the Rules of Procedure, even if it is done under the auspices of a temporary committee, when there are legal proceedings underway. We have heard that proceedings are underway in France and Spain, and we know that they are underway in the United States. We are also aware of the will involved, which differs according to the intentions of each person in these types of committees. Here there are Members and political groups whose intentions will come to an end in March 2004, with the results of the general elections in Spain. There are some people for whom the results would end if, were the Spanish authorities to be deemed responsible, they were to obtain compensation as a guarantee, as may happen if it is the Kingdom of Spain. That was not what we were trying to do in this House, however. What we were trying to do was to analyse what happened with the  and determine the consequences so as to enable us to put forward maritime safety measures for the future. That was the context of the report. I would like to recall here the rapporteur’s words during the last debate in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, where he said that he could not see how there could be a committee of inquiry, that after everything he had studied in drawing up his report and the contributions in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, it would be difficult to push forward the idea of a committee of inquiry. It is important to recall here the trips, the presentations, the hearings, the documents, etc. We know that in Denmark a pilot detected that the  was not seaworthy and yet allowed it to continue sailing; we know that the classification society had clearly not complied with its duties to inspect the repairs; we know that the vessel had carried out a series of bunkering operations, 174 times, and that it cracked in those same places where it had been repaired. That is of no concern, however. What is of concern is who took the decision and why. Ladies and gentlemen, read the documents. In the report by the Spanish Government, in the hearing attended by the Spanish authorities, in Galicia, etc., only one person is responsible: the Director General of the Merchant Navy, the highest political, professional and technical authority in Spain, and this has been recognised. Moreover, we have the statements from the Brest maritime prefect, where he states that he advised a change of course and that it was impossible for this vessel to enter a place of refuge as it was going to break up. However, ladies and gentlemen, none of this is of any interest. Evidently, we are faced with a political debate that is not searching to clarify the truth. In this case, I am calling for the search for a future, the search for maritime safety measures and not merely an internal debate which, I will say it again, for many will end in March 2004 with the elections. I appeal to Mr Sterckx to seek a formula for consensus where we concentrate genuinely on maritime safety in Europe rather than an internal debate. –  Mr President, I would like to state briefly that I do not believe that anyone doubts the need for a directive to tackle this problem, which is a serious problem not only for Europe, but for all seas world-wide, and that urgent and effective measures are therefore necessary. I would like to make it clear that there is a series of principles which are universal, and with which we are therefore in complete agreement. First, every port must be equipped with the necessary facilities for the treatment of waste. Secondly, polluters must pay, naturally. I agree that there may be discrepancies in exceptions regarding the type of ship or devices for measuring the length of ships. However, what cannot happen is a battle leading to a distortion in competition between the different ports, where we find ourselves with a series of theoretically environmental measures on the protection of the coast or the sea, leading to a distortion in competition between the different ports. It is therefore on this issue that effective measures must be adopted because, if we are unable to adopt a suitable solution, then this directive will end in outright failure. And the only outcome will be that some ports are advantaged and others disadvantaged, all due to fine words on the environment leading to a competitive war between ports. The logical solution, for example, would be to establish the principle of a single tariff for all European ports, a tariff that is exactly the same, that would not give rise to any type of distortion in competition, or similar measures. Any decision that, for example, enables the Member States to grant subsidies to the different ports, would end up distorting competition and would ultimately be ineffective. – Mr President, Madam Vice-President, the  disaster led to a wave of indignation amongst the European public at the deficient measures in force and our incapacity to prevent such a huge catastrophe. This accident demonstrated the limitations of a political approach which tried to deal with maritime safety exclusively within the framework of international organisations such as the IMO. The very extensive international safety legislation which now regulates maritime transport has made it possible to drastically reduce accidents and pollution. The measures we are discussing today and those which we discussed just a month ago, Erika I, demonstrate the commitment of our institutions to strengthening the safety of ships and the protection of the marine environment. However, as in all human activities, it is practically impossible to guarantee complete safety. It is therefore inevitable that there should be sporadic maritime accidents or pollution incidents and that, being spectacular, they should receive wide media coverage. This does not alter the fact that the immense majority of journeys take place safely, effectively and in a way which respects the environment. I congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr Sterckx, Mr Esclopé and Mr Mastorakis, on their excellent work on the safety of maritime traffic, the compensation of oil pollution and the creation of a European Maritime Safety Agency. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Commission and, in particular, the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, on her magnificent work, since in one year she has presented six proposals aimed at improving maritime safety. As alternative rapporteur, I will focus on the third proposal, by the rapporteur Mr Mastorakis, on the creation of the European Maritime Safety Agency. I personally believe that the creation of this Agency will demonstrate to the public our institutions’ great interest in preventing future accidents and pollution, as well the need to raise levels of safety on our seas. Both the rapporteur, Mr Mastorakis, and others of us have presented a series of amendments aimed at improving the organisation of the Agency. I would like to mention one, which relates to the composition of the Agency’s board, in which we propose that Parliament be removed from that composition. The reason is clear: we believe that Parliament is an organ for controlling management, never for participating in management. For that we have the Commission, the Council and a whole range of organisations. I therefore simply wish to thank the Commissioner for her work and ask her to present the Erika III package shortly, so that we can continue working on maritime safety. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 11 September will go down as a crucial date in the history of the modern era in general and for the aviation sector in particular, for which we can talk about a before and an after. I wish, first of all, to express my solidarity with the victims of these cowardly and barbaric attacks and with the government of the United States and also to unreservedly, roundly and unambiguously condemn terrorism. Improving the security of transport users and transported goods was and must continue to be one of the Union’s priorities for action in coming years. I am delighted that this is the view adopted in the White Paper on transport policy presented by the Commission only a few months ago. We must not forget that a safe journey is the most important right of any passenger. The ongoing safety and competitiveness of this sector require the rapid adoption of the latest Commission proposals on air safety and the ‘single sky’ package. We must also take account of other measures that were already on the table, such as the JAR-OPS Regulation, the draft directive on occurrence reporting in civil aviation and the proposal on the professional competence of cabin crew. All of these texts, Commissioner, must be approved as soon as possible. To conclude, I would say that the disastrous action taken on the air transport sector in recent weeks has shown the extent to which the European Union has a pivotal role in responding to the need for regulation at both Community and world-wide level. Only a European vision will enable us to confront new challenges such as international terrorism, for which international intergovernmental forums can no longer provide a sufficiently rapid or effective response. Parliament has a duty to support the Commission on these proposals to restore the public confidence and safety that have been lost. It is at times like this that we must make Europe’s presence felt. Lastly, I also wish to address the Council, which must now find the ability and the courage to support and take decisions that ensure that civil aviation will continue to be safe, reliable and sustainable from every point of view. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur. On the basis of a Commission proposal with the best of intentions and leading us in the right direction, I believe that the rapporteur presented the committee with a good draft report and that the result achieved by that committee, as the rapporteur pointed out, is highly satisfactory. It would be a good thing if the Commission and, subsequently, the Council could take up the proposals of this Parliament’s Committee on Regional Policy. Europe is constructed on the basis of agreements and consensus. We are dealing here with an example of what, in many cases, this way of operating has consisted of: gentlemen’s agreements. But from now on many of these agreements must be reflected in the Treaties, with a relevant legal basis. This is an extremely important issue, as the rapporteur has pointed out very effectively. We are dealing with European territorial construction. For this we need clear, homogenous and geographic criteria. These criteria must be based on politico-administrative criteria – forgive my repetition. We must not create fictitious units which, in the end, only lead to a lack of confidence in European construction on the part of the different States, the different regions and the citizens. I am therefore pleased with the proposal from the committee. I would lastly like to point out an amendment which rather reflects what we are talking about: the amendment by Mrs Cerdeira on the division of the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, which are politico-administrative units, each with its own status. In this specific case I would like to point out how Mr Hernández Mollar, from my group, also fought for this recognition for a long time, and I believe that tomorrow, when the report presented by the Committee on Regional Policy is approved, we will have achieved a satisfactory result. This is an example and a reflection of what we want in terms of the division and structuring of Europe. – Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, in the past, Parliament has continually demonstrated its commitment to the harmonisation of safety standards at the highest possible level for the Union. Now it must continue to do so, and to ensure, as a matter of urgency, that this is clearly visible to the European citizens, who every year continue to suffer the problems of the European area. We all agree that the objective is to successfully do away with national discrepancies in order to arrive at a set of common safety standards at the highest possible level. Air safety cannot be confined to European Union territory, and it is important for European citizens who travel or live near airports to be confident that aircraft from third countries fulfil all the necessary safety criteria. The Union must therefore have control methods to ensure that, in accordance with international regulations, third country aircraft arriving at our airports comply with international safety regulations. This means common control methods and technical and administrative organisation and support. It is therefore inevitable that safety in this sector should become a matter for international cooperation within the framework of the different instruments for technical assistance and support for investment in third countries. Mr President, I will end by pointing out the need to assist the Commission in its work in this very complicated field and the priority which must be given to creating the European Air Safety Agency, as well as the need for independent regulations, which we are currently considering, on issues relating to rest periods for aircrew. Mr President, the truth is that, as has been quite rightly pointed out, we have dedicated two and a half years of work on an important and critical issue which, as we can see, inspires great passion. I am genuinely surprised by today's debate, because it appears that we are pitting the social Europe of the nineteenth century against a form of capitalism and the Mafia activities of the Chicago of the 1920s in our ports. And in fact what we want is precisely the opposite. This is the twenty-first century. We want a modern and effective social Europe. We want sustainable ports, which are competitive and able to provide an alternative to other types of transport. What we are being presented with does not give us this of course, but it is a small first step, much less than what many of us expected. That is the Europe I believe in. The Europe of the nineteenth century, the Europe which reflects the Chicago of the Twenties, is not my Europe. Perhaps some people want that. Perhaps that is what some people want to maintain. Naturally, we are not going to support it and we are going to vote in favour of conciliation. I would like to congratulate the Commissioner on having maintained the objective of modernising our ports, the will of the rapporteur and the will of certain parliamentary groups which have defended, despite the absolutely unacceptable pressure they have received from certain workers in European ports, the modernisation and competitiveness of our ports. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the Commissioner, on the speed with which a proposal has been presented to Parliament, the rapporteur, on the important and serious work he has done, which has allowed us to discuss the proposal today and approve it tomorrow, and the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Regional Policy, because their work will pass into the annals of the European Parliament’s history. Mr President, I would like to highlight four criteria and finally mention a material error which has slipped into the proposal we are going to vote on tomorrow. Firstly, I would like to express my positive view of the adoption of the qualitative criterion by the committee, and therefore by Parliament, and I hope this will be recognised by the Commission and the Council. Secondly, I would have liked the definition of ‘drought’ to have been made much clearer amongst the disasters to be incorporated, despite the fact that the Commission and several speakers have expressed the view that it is covered by the definition of disasters. From experience, I would prefer definitions to be much more specific and much clearer. Thirdly, I believe it is positive that there is mention and clarification of the fact that it is the Member States who are the interlocutors with the Commission on the Fund we are talking about, in order that we may provide a rapid and effective solution. Fourthly, since I come from the Balearic Islands, I would like to express my gratitude at the approval of the amendment clearly incorporating the islands and the outermost regions; this brings us back to the issue I mentioned before in the context of drought: the situations must be clearly defined so that there are no doubts when this type of dramatic situation arises and requires an immediate response. Finally, Mr President, please allow me to request that the services of Parliament review Paragraph 3 of Article 3 in Amendment No 13. I tabled an amendment which requested the inclusion of urban areas in the final paragraph. I understand that this amendment was approved in the Committee on Regional Policy; in fact, in the justification for what is proposed for the vote tomorrow it is made perfectly clear that, in the amendment being approved, the cleaning up of cities is included. However, what was voted for in the Committee on Regional Policy was not taken up, despite the fact that it appears in the justification. I assume that this is an omission and I would be grateful if it could be resolved before the vote tomorrow. We believe that the incorporation of the urban areas is extremely important in terms of their quantification and repair, and in terms of the concentration of human beings found in them, and immediate action is therefore required. The vote within the Committee on Regional Policy was truly significant. – Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me firstly to pay tribute to a person connected to the world of transport, the head of local police recently murdered by the terrorist group ETA. Secondly, and turning more specifically to the report, I would like to make a series of comments. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and Karla Peijs, our shadow rapporteur, since she has made enormous contributions to this document. I will move on to the issues in the report. Firstly, there is concern amongst a series of delegations, a series of groups, because we believe the report does not reflect, or reflects very little, the situation of certain countries whose infrastructures have not yet been established, as opposed to other countries in which infrastructures, investments in infrastructures, essentially roads, are completely finished and which only need to be improved. That is one of our group’s concerns. Secondly, I would like to express our support for the creation of a road safety agency. The number of fatal accidents currently occurring on European Roads requires not just a message but an effective and active European policy, and we believe that the road safety agency can be a good instrument. Finally, we also support the creation of the transport fund, with objectives and considerations other than the trans-European networks and the Structural Funds in the field of transport. We will support these two ideas which we consider to be positive. – Madam President, firstly, please allow me to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Ferber, because his work has been complicated and difficult and he has had to try to find a balance between dramatically differing proposals, positions and points of departure and arrival. But why has it been difficult? Because it is based on a Commission proposal which I believe was rotten from the outset. And why was it rotten from the outset? Commissioner, please allow me to say that you know perfectly well, because the studies that you have at your disposal show that, for example, in Spain 44% of the postal service is liberalised. And the proposal you are making in fact moves towards liberalisation. But whom does that liberalisation benefit? It benefits those companies and those countries which so far have done absolutely nothing. Actually, they have done something. They have massively financed their public postal service companies and now, rationalised, financed, with enormous economic power, they intend to enter the rest of the European Union’s postal service markets. Therefore, those that have worked within the framework of the 1997 Directive are being penalised and those that have done the opposite are benefiting, and that is not a liberalised market or a process of homogenisation. That is not the construction of a cohesive and social Europe, as has been said previously. We have to seek equality of opportunity; we have to seek a legal framework and a liberalising framework, within which we all have fair and balanced opportunities. . – Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this new parliamentary session we are dealing with one of the issues which I would describe as a star issue for this legislature. You will remember that at the end of the last parliamentary session we congratulated the Vice-President both on the work she has done in terms of rail transport and the work she has done on the Erika packages in relation to maritime safety. Well today, at the outset, we are returning to a star issue: the attempt to create the Single Sky; the attempt to harmonise the technical standards; an increase in safety; an increase in the capacity of our airspace. Harmonising all of this with national interests. Harmonising or trying to involve the military authorities, but at the same time trying to respond to a demand of the European citizens: an increase in flight capacity and an increase in safety. We believe that that safety can be achieved, precisely by means of harmonisation. We believe that the creation of the Single Sky will respond to the increasing demand for air safety. I therefore urge the Vice-President, with the support of this Parliament – because she knows that we support her – to take on, following the approval of the reports we are currently debating, the difficult task of trying to convince the Council to come to an agreement quickly. This is what the European citizens demand: that technical safety be increased by means of the approval of all the proposals and measures which we are debating here at the moment. I would like to point out that the Transport Committee and, of course, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which I represent, have been urging and pressurising the European Commission to adopt this type of measure. Unfortunately, as happened in the case of the debate on the Erika package, we are holding this debate on a dramatic anniversary in the history of the world, which is also significant in terms of the history of air travel. Safeguarding military interests – strengthening the coordination and cooperation between civil and military authorities – increasing air safety, harmonising technical standards, creating the Single Sky committee, increasing the role of Eurocontrol through cooperation between the European Commission and Eurocontrol in the manner proposed and discussed by the Vice-President. These are the challenges and the options and direction we have to take. I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and the honourable Members for your efforts on this important debate. I would also like to congratulate the Vice-President and I urge her to do everything possible to achieve an agreement quickly. – Madam Vice-President, I would like to thank you for being here and ask you two very brief and specific questions. Firstly, could you confirm that the whole of the Spanish high-speed network is included in the trans-European networks? And secondly, if the answer is yes, what are the scope and consequences of its incorporation for European infrastructure and from a Spanish point of view? – Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, all of us who have participated in the work of the committee know that this has been a difficult and controversial debate which has even, at times, caused tension in Parliament. I would like to make several things clear: firstly, this is a good proposed directive by the Commission. I repeat: I believe that it is a good proposal, and this has been reflected in the vote in committee. I believe that it is a positive regulation and is very important if the European Union is to have efficient maritime and port services. We must not forget that 80% of the European Union’s trade is carried out by sea. And this liberalisation proposed by the Commission will no doubt benefit short sea shipping. Furthermore, there is clearly a need for Community regulation of these services in accordance with the liberalising approach established at the Lisbon Council and which has already been applied in other sectors of services. The proposal we are dealing with today includes technical-nautical services (pilotage and mooring) and cargo-handling services. There are no reasons, on the grounds of safety, training or anything else, to justify their exclusion from the scope of the directive. We must clearly take account of the particular nature of ports and the fact that there are services whose provision begins or ends outside the physical area of the port. Another essential element of the system proposed by the Commission is the concept of self-handling, which is already laid down in Directive 96/67/EC on access to the groundhandling market at Community airports. I would like to briefly mention certain other elements of the port package. We are talking about public funding of ports and the need for great transparency in the financial relations between public authorities and ports and State aid. I agree with certain amendments which try to describe this aspect. But with regard to State aid, it seems clear that this directive is not the right place to discuss this issue. Lastly, I would like to thank the rapporteur, although we have disagreed on certain points, for the enormous amount of work he has done and the huge effort he has made to try to reconcile all the proposals. – Mr President, I was delighted by the Commissioner’s explanations. At the moment, however, our shipbuilding industry is, unfortunately, in a very bad way. I would like to remind you that the issue we are dealing with today is by no means a recent one. Quite the opposite. For more than two years we have debated and condemned the unfair practices, originating mainly from Asia, which our shipbuilders are being subjected to. At the moment it is exclusively the Commission’s responsibility to define the defence mechanisms for protecting our shipbuilding industry, or what remains of it, in the face of Korea’s unfair practices. After so much time during which the European sector has been decimated, while people signed friendly agreements, carried out consultations and held meetings, it is now time to act decisively. The Commission must adopt a strong position on this issue and unequivocally defend our industry, by approving, as soon as possible, an ambitious plan which provides aid for operations, research and development and, of course, environmental aid. Only through a raft of measures of this type can we protect and compensate this important industry which, on more than one occasion, has felt abandoned by the Community authorities. This would also send a clear and powerful message to the Government of South Korea and would possibly persuade that government, in the medium term, to change its current policy of commercial dumping. Finally, I must point out that it is our duty to guarantee an atmosphere of fair competition on a world scale so that this industry, on which so many families in Europe, Spain and in my region, the Basque Country, depend, may move forward. – Mr President, I am aware that I am going to repeat what the previous speaker said, because it is the same old story. Here we are again discussing shipbuilding and the unfair practices of South Korea in the sector. I have no doubt that while we are here splitting hairs, Korean shipyards will be working at full capacity. I would also like to point out that this discussion on the unfair practices of this Asian country began in 1998 and so far no action has been taken against the Republic of South Korea, but rather we spend time discussing whether or not it is a good idea to include one category or another in the defence mechanism, which the European Commission designed nearly two years ago. I do not think I am wrong in saying that at this rate we will end up including pleasure boats. I would also like to point out that in November 2001 in this House we approved the inclusion of gas carriers, ferries and boats for the transport of motor vehicles, which is part of the complaint to the WTO, but they were not included in the defence mechanism. Surprisingly, that proposal did not receive the necessary support from the Council, so the whole matter is still on hold, which is truly shameful. I would like to call for solidarity between the countries of the European Union, the same solidarity on which we have built this community of Europe and which in recent times appears to have faded, because without it, European shipbuilders will soon have disappeared, and we will be accountable to thousands of families. – (ES) Madam President, I wish to refer to the comments which the President, Mrs. Fontaine, made yesterday concerning the prohibition of the use of mobile telephones inside the hemicycle. There is nothing more important in our Parliament than talking and communication, but in debates and not through external means of communication such as mobile telephones with the ringing and distortion that they cause. I ask that real measures be taken, where necessary, to impose sanctions, just as we might penalise those who do not vote. Those who distort the use of words in this hemicycle must be penalised, forbidden entry or have their mobile telephones confiscated. I request that effective measures be taken. (Applause) – Energy, and electrical energy in particular, is of enormous importance to economic activity and social well-being, with a volume of business of some EUR 150 billion per year. Since the first directive on its liberalisation was adopted in 1996, and the second in 1998, there has been a significant fall in prices, especially in the countries in which those directives have been most strictly applied. I agree with the Commission, and with the rapporteur, on the need for liberalisation to be speeded up, so that the Community can fully benefit from a dynamic and competitive market. Nevertheless, despite the fact that the current regulations lay down the essential principles on the conditions, methods and pace of liberalisation, there are certain extremely important aspects which must be dealt with by means of additional measures and specific solutions. I am talking about the management of congestion, the cross-boundary aspects and the existing bottlenecks in the European transport networks, which hinder the balanced distribution of the benefits of these measures, which may facilitate the creation of a single market at Community level. On the other hand, there is still the practice of discriminatory prices for transfer between the Member States and the monopolies which own the networks, which hinders the genuine liberalisation of the sector. I believe that these practices, as well as the possible substitution of the well-known national monopolies by a European oligopoly, should be combated relentlessly by the services which come under the responsibility of the Commission. Although this issue is of concern to us and deserves much consideration, I would like to end by supporting the balanced report of the rapporteur and highlighting the need to realise the expectations of our citizens as soon as possible. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Langen on the sound report which he has produced on the issue of shipbuilders. I would like to remind you that the issue we are dealing with today is an old one. It has been a recurrent theme. Specifically, it is now more than two years since we condemned the unfair practices which essentially take place in South East Asia, and which affect our shipbuilding industry. In recent weeks, the Commission has told us that the system of subsidies, thanks to which our industry is subsisting, must be removed as from January as a result of a supposed improvement in competitiveness. On the other hand, after more than two years of ferocious unfair competition on the part of Korea, the Commission has decided, after receiving a formal complaint from all our shipbuilders, to take the case to the World Trade Organisation. As you all know, it will take more than six months to carry out this procedure. Furthermore, if successful, the creation of a group of experts within that organisation will mean that it will take at least two years. In the meantime, it is intended that what remains of our shipbuilding industry will subsist thanks to a package of aid to research and development, which will enter into force in January, as Commissioner Monti pointed out yesterday afternoon. We have held a meeting with him, in which I asked him a series of questions. It can be deduced from the conclusions of the meeting that the aid received by our industry has not resolved the problem of Korea. I pointed out to him that the European shipbuilding industry is unprotected. He then said that after 2 December an investigation would perhaps be opened, and that after that investigation we would have to wait and see what happened, etc. I believe that the honest ones, the Europeans, are being left to fend for themselves. Meanwhile, the pirates, to put it in realistic, if pejorative, terms, have the advantage within this competitive world. It is we who play by the rules and it is we who end up losing. I, for example, am from the Basque Country, and I live close to Bilbao. There, these days, what were once shipyards are now concert halls, maritime museums etc. In these shipyards, 4 000 people once worked, and now just a couple of doormen work in each place, and that is what is happening in the European countries. That is, while we are enduring unemployment, the Koreans are doing good business in their shipyards. – Mr President, I would like to make a comment in relation to yesterday’s Minutes. I do not appear amongst the signatories of the attendance register. I was present all day yesterday and during the vote which took place at noon, but I do not appear in the Minutes. I would be grateful if this error could be corrected. – Commissioner, firstly, to a certain extent I feel reassured because I notice that the Commission has been concerned with, and has perhaps also done something about, this problem. However, the dates mentioned by the Commissioner – there was a meeting on 29 November, on 2 December it was decided to open an investigation, and then it is said that it may happen within six months, etc. – are not very illuminating. I believe that the intentions as a whole are hugely reassuring, but the reality is that meanwhile our dockyards are closing down. I come from a country, Spain, and specifically the Basque Country, where there is nobody left building ships because we cannot cope with Korean competition. The Korean shipbuilders are quite happy to carry out dumping – not only with regard to the European Union, but also the whole world – and I cannot see any solution to it. I would be grateful if we could take immediate and crucial measures. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mrs Muscardini and Mr Naïr, on the excellent work they have done on an issue as sensitive as the conflict in this part of the world. I would also like to start my speech by informing Parliament – I believe this is good news – about the MEDA programme, with which perhaps some of you are already familiar. On 12 December the Council approved a budgetary contribution in this regard, which represents an increase of 10% on the annual investment for the MEDA programme. This means that, compared to the EUR 684 million used during the previous period, that annual contribution will now total EUR 764 million per year. I believe that this demonstrates the goodwill that dominates relations between Parliament, the Commission and the Council in this field. On the other hand – and unfortunately – we must note, however, that sufficient means are not being made available to find an appropriate destination for this aid, since, in the period 1995-1999, almost 30% of the budgeted aid was not implemented. This is disappointing management. I do not know what the problem is, but there is a problem. Furthermore, I would like to refer to the social, cultural and human dimension of these 15 North African countries, to which our various societies must move closer, and with whom we must promote comprehension and improve mutual understanding. It also requires a special effort in terms of the teaching and training of young people, which must be based on tolerance, since young people are the future of these nations. Neither must we forget dialogue, as well as the promotion of fundamental rights. Finally, I would like to say one thing: we have an obligation to do this well, because if we do not do it out of love, we will have to do it out of fear, because what is at stake is the security of southern Europe. –  Mr President, first of all I should like to congratulate Mrs Rothe on the excellent job she has done with this report and, what is more, on the spirit of consensus she has demonstrated. I am convinced that in all energy-related matters we should be aware that either we improve our sources or we shall leave the planet Earth uninhabitable within a few generations. In my opinion, it is fundamental that we should ensure support for these kinds of energy sources for a considerable period of time, thus allowing our industries to make decisive, long-term investments in this alternative energy. I believe a stable framework for energy from renewable sources needs to be guaranteed within ten years at least; this is a proposal we should all support. With regard to our targets in this field, we have to listen to the people and go beyond the Commission’s proposal of 21%, which I think is very positive overall, and increase the renewable portion of the total electricity produced. Furthermore, for the sake of coherence, the targets I have mentioned when converted into national parameters must be binding or else the directive will lack content and substance. Indeed it is fundamental that they should be binding to demonstrate that in environmental matters, too, the European Union takes its international obligations seriously. Lastly, I am aware that all this is easy to criticise and difficult to carry out, but if we do not act immediately, within a few generations we shall be in deep water, and that will lead us to disaster. So let us act together and leave an inhabitable world for our children. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of several Basque Members of this House. I am also fully committed to the defence of all human rights, especially the most basic right of all, namely the right to life. As some honourable Members will be aware, Domingo Durán, an officer in the Spanish national police force died last Friday at the age of 51. Eight years ago he was guarding a Bilbao office processing national identity cards and lost the use of all four limbs as a result of an attack by ETA. Mr Cox, I believe it would be appropriate for you to issue a condemnation of violence of any kind in your capacity as President of the European Parliament. In particular, I call on you to condemn terrorist violence in pursuit of political aims, and to convey the condolences of the House to the family of this victim of terrorism. As an expression of our solidarity with the people of Spain and especially the Basques I would also like to call on all those present in the House today to join in a minute’s silence in defence of freedom, political coexistence and respect for the rule of law. – Mr President, I think it is fair to congratulate Mrs Rothe on the excellent work she has done on this report and, above all, on the spirit of creativity and consensus she has demonstrated in producing it, trying to avoid the conciliation procedure, which would have done the sector few favours given the urgent need for a directive in as important a field as renewable energy. I believe that on all issues relating to energy, we must be aware that we must improve sources or otherwise we will make planet Earth uninhabitable within a few years. It is essential that we guarantee support for this type of source for a considerable period, thereby allowing our industry to make decisive and long-term investments in this energy alternative. Therefore, to ensure a stable framework for renewable energy, within the timescale proposed in the report – although a broader timescale would have been desirable – is a proposal which we all can and must support. With regard to the goals which we have set for ourselves, despite the fact that we should have been more ambitious, I believe that the objective of 12% of energy coming from renewable sources by 2010 is something which must be broadened but, in principle, it is a good start. Furthermore, it is essential that, in the future, when this amendment is amended and the sector is more established, we set binding objectives for each Member State and we will thereby demonstrate that the European Union also takes its commitments seriously in the environmental field. In summary, I consider it essential and urgent that we reach a pact at European level in order to support this type of energy source. Lastly, although I know it is not easy, we must state that, if we do not act immediately, in a few years time the coming generations are going to be facing a ruined planet. Therefore, for the sake of solidarity, we must leave behind a much more habitable world, and a future like that urgently requires all these renewable sources of energy. –  Mr President, I believe that one of the main reasons for the excellence of this report is the quality of the person who produced it, because it is a real pleasure to work with her. As is well known, through the Internet, the citizens of the whole world can now discover new realities about countries, companies, associations and, in many cases, ways of life from the opposite ends of the Earth. The development of this interactive means of communication is exponential and access to it in many developed countries is practically universal and, in others, is just a question of time. Furthermore, we have all been witnesses to the frequent bad use of the Internet. I believe that within the Internet top level domain “.EU” we must prevent cases of improper uses of names which may harm the image of the European Union and its Member States, because the top level domain “.EU” is going to be the European Union’s shop front to the world, it is going to be our logo and is going to be part of our heritage, and as such it must be dealt with, supervised, controlled and protected. In summary, I believe there are certain facets of economic activity which must be subject to control, if the intention is to achieve a good result, and the top level domain “.EU” must, in my view, be one of them, so that it may be synonymous with quality, reliability of the information hosted by it and the consistency of its contents. I would like to remind you that the European Union has an excellent image and what we have to do is maintain it and support it. – Mr President, the Novelli report on the coal industry in the European Union was, as you are aware, rejected by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 23 April. That report, far from helping to reach a consensus around the European Commission proposal, which was viewed by the majority of the members of our committee as balanced and comprehensive, meant sudden death for the European coal industry. On the one hand it meant cutting aid to companies in the sector, and reducing the periods within which our industry could receive that assistance. Given the importance of the issue, particularly for the families and regions that depend solely on that activity in the European Union, the majority of the members of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy came to an agreement on a fair and balanced consensus text that is none other than the draft regulation from the European Commission. That regulation envisages maintaining aid to that sector at least until December 2007. During that period the European Commission will evaluate the development of the sector, both at Community level and at world level, and if necessary will put forward fresh proposals. On the other hand, it should also be remembered that this date is in some way subordinate to the security of energy supply that the European Union needs, as this is a factor that the European Commission will undoubtedly take into account when formulating new proposals. We think that this is an important subject that should be treated as a priority. . – Mr President, firstly, I would very much like to congratulate Mrs Ayuso on the excellent work she has done. As you know, the aim of this directive in terms of taxes is to establish a Community framework which allows Member States to apply a differentiated tax system which favours biofuels. In terms of the content of its directive, the European Commission is proposing a series of measures which, on the whole, are balanced and well-structured. However, I believe that we should allow each Member State the greatest possible freedom to set the level of reduction of special taxes, that is, to promote this type of fuel and not to establish a minimum level of tax. I believe that each country of the European Union is going to try over the next few years to achieve the reduction in CO2 emissions we have set for 2020 within the framework of the Kyoto Protocol and, according to their circumstances, some will put more emphasis on the use of biofuels and others on wind power, etc. For this reason, I believe it is essential to make this directive more flexible. Furthermore, it goes without saying that each Member State is sovereign when it comes to deciding the extent to which in their particular case it pays to lose income via special taxes if that leads to a reduction in CO2 emissions. In the same way, I fear that this will be the only way to move this proposal forward within the Council, where, as you know, there is a great divide on this issue. With regard to the policy on interinstitutional information and transparency, in general, I am very much in favour – particularly on issues relating to the environment, with regard to which there is great sensitivity, which seems doubly important – of our all being informed punctually of the development of the various programmes. . –  Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on being open to dialogue on all areas connected to the report and to the amendments. I think we must consider all matters related to renewable energies to be extremely important, bearing in mind the fact that we want to leave behind us a world which future generations will find inhabitable.  It is curious that we are slowly killing ourselves and yet the earth’s contamination is not causing the alarm bells to ring. What can we do about it? I think that first we must seek out all renewable energies and take advantage of them, encourage them, promote them and provide the appropriate incentives to make them viable, and at the same time penalise energies that contaminate. I know that this is all easy to say and difficult to do, but unless we act immediately, within a few generations, we will be stretched to the limit. My opinion is that we should start by differentiating between compensation and subsidies. It is common knowledge that most traditional sources of energy, apart from those using water, wind etc., cause a great deal of serious environmental damage, in many cases, such as CO2, acid rain, oil slicks etc. This damage is usually repaired by public administrations, by means of programmes for restoring and caring for the environment. In the case of renewables which do not cause any harm to the surrounding environment, I believe it would be reasonable to compensate them while there is no tax on emissions of polluting particles such as CO2. Therefore, as long as public administrations continue to take responsibility for repairing the damage caused by thermal or nuclear power stations, we will be subsidising these sources of energy at the expense of renewables. I would finally like to mention the establishment of an appropriate legal framework for this kind of energy, which would foster its rapid development, bearing in mind that, in the long term, renewables must become predominant. . – Mr President, I would like to hear the opinion of the Commission on the amendments which we have just adopted. . – Mr President, the Commission’s reply seems very reasonable and I have no objections. Madam President, as we all know, the terrorist group ETA has decided on a return to criminal activity, the indefinite cessation of which it announced 14 months ago. As a Basque, I want to humbly, simply but firmly express to this House my feelings regarding the shattering of the hope for peace which the Spanish people and the Basques in particular have clung to throughout this period. It is tragic to think that there are still people in the European Union today who are helpless in the face of the sectarian violence of a few others and who are having to pay an extremely high price for remaining true to their beliefs in the face of terrorist blackmail.  I therefore ask this House, which represents all the peoples of the European Union, to show its solidarity with the Basque people in defence of the freedom, respect for the law and peaceful coexistence which we have all craved for so long. We have to believe that, through tolerance towards others and a love for life, we  achieve peace. Finally, I ask you to help personally in ensuring the victory of this desire for peace which all the Spanish people share. Together, we can make this road to peace a reality. . –  Mr President, the TACIS programme has dedicated its greatest efforts to supporting Mongolia, Russia and the other New Independent States in the carrying out of reforms and the political and administrative restructuring of their social and economic institutions in order to facilitate the construction of a democratic society which is based on a free market economy. As we all know, this is an ambitious programme which will require a great economic effort on the part of the European Union, in the order of EUR 4,000 million in seven years. Consequently, the text of the proposed regulation has taken a long time to draw up, and even then it has been judged to be unspecific and incomplete, since it does not include implementation procedures. This has been a complex report and it has taken us time to reach an acceptable degree of consensus. Furthermore, there is no need to stress that, on sending these funds to Russia and the New Independent States, we were not convinced that they would be administered properly. In fact, we were rather worried about their administration and distribution. Initially, it was the Committee on Budgets that requested greater control and rigour in the implementation of this aid programme. Today, more than six months after those first exchanges of opinion, I think that we should be proud of the modifications made to the proposed regulation, mainly by this Committee, which increase the guarantees that these funds will be put to good use. There was also a problem with the commitology of this programme within the old REX Committee, but, after the Council decision of 28 June 1999, to standardise the different Committees, this obstacle was overcome. On the other hand, the discussion of the legal basis of this report has also been polemical, although in the end the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market approved it, finally defining it under Article 235, a decision which did not please many of us. Another problem which has faced us is the fact that, until now, there have been no harmonised implementation procedures in the proposal for a regulation. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Commission representative when we will have harmonised procedures, which will guarantee more transparency, and efficiency, as the second report of the Independent Experts recommended. Neither do I wish to end my speech without drawing attention to the unfortunate events in Chechnya and I therefore propose an oral amendment regarding the suspension of aid to Russia while this conflict continues. I would like to make it clear that I do not intend to change the basis of Amendment No 39 of my report, but I do wish to adapt it to recent events, to which end we have reached agreement amongst the PSE representatives in our committee, thereby achieving greater coherence, consensus and technical quality. The text of the amendment which we are proposing would be as follows: “In accordance with the European Parliament resolution of 18 November 1999, the conclusions of new contracts covering measures for the benefit of Russia to be funded in the context of the budget for the 2000 financial year shall be suspended, with the exception of the TACIS line for democracy, until a satisfactory solution has been found in Chechnya, in accordance with the European Union’s recommendations and on the basis of the procedure established in Article 13 of the present Regulation”. Finally, I would like to ask the representative of the European Commission, with regard to this last point as well as to the report in general, if he is really going to take account of the recommendations made within the framework of this consultation, once they have been approved by this Parliament. . – Mr President, I should first like to point out a minor error in the text on the opinion of the Industry Committee, for which I was rapporteur. Point 2 should end with the initials GATT. The subsequent phrase appeared in the draft statement but was deleted in the rush to prepare the final version, which I had to complete in just 24 hours. Moving on to the text before us, I would like to refer to the commercial aspects of the association agreement between the European Union and Mercosur. It will bring together almost 600 million consumers, that is, about 10% of the global population. In 1998, the only year for which statistics are available, the volume of trade between us amounted to EUR 42 000. A 125% increase has been recorded over the last eight years, with a European Union surplus of EUR 6 400 million. It is worth pointing out in this connection that the European Union is Mercosur’s main trading partner, five points ahead of the United States. It is also the main supplier to the area. Furthermore, if we look back in time we find that European countries have always made their presence felt most strongly in this part of Latin America, doubtless as a result of the special historical and cultural ties between us. This agreement is therefore extremely important. It is unprecedented at global level, enabling the only two subregions in the world who have created common markets to form an association for commercial purposes. In conclusion, I should like to express my support for this interregional association agreement, which could be a milestone in the history of world trade. –  Madam President, speaking as a Basque and, therefore, as a Spaniard, I would like to thank you for the sensitivity you always show with regard to the problem of terrorism in the Basque country. On the other hand, and I am sorry to have to say this, I must point out that from time to time on these occasions when, in theory, we are supposed to be observing a minutes silence, there are people in this House who continue to talk, even on the telephone, which seems to me to show, amongst other things, a total lack of consideration. –  Mr President, first of all I should like to express my satisfaction at the conclusion of the Association Agreement between Mexico and the European Union. Many of us present here have played an active part in preparing this agreement over the last few years. With regard to the report we are dealing with, I should like to point out two aspects I consider important, the treatment of which is surprising. First, this text mentions the Mexican constitution at least eight times, arguing that if Mexico signs the agreement with the European Union this will supposedly violate that country’s supreme charter. In this regard, I should just like to recall that on 20 May 2000 the Mexican Parliament approved this cooperation by 89 votes to 11 with two abstentions. The same figures apply to the approval of the commercial decisions of the Joint Council for the Interim Agreement and also those of the Joint Council for the Global Agreement. No parliamentary group appealed to the nation’s Supreme Court of Justice, the body authorised to settle such matters, on grounds of unconstitutionality. On another subject, with regard to human rights, it should be remembered that Mexico has signed more than 50 international treaties on human and workers’ rights, including many of those mentioned in the report on the table. It also recognises the mandatory jurisdiction of the Interamerican Court of Human Rights in such matters. It seems then, that the rule of law prevails in Mexico. In addition, the current administration has signed an agreement with the United Nations and has set up a special embassy at that international organisation for human rights and democracy. I must also mention that in 1999 the democracy clause was included in this agreement. Lastly, I think the best guarantee of being able to exercise individual rights and freedoms is economic prosperity; as everyone knows and as has been demonstrated on many occasions, free trade agreements provide in the medium term a solid basis on which to achieve it. – Madam President, I am going to raise a point of order in the literal and true sense of the word. I am referring to the disarray in Parliament’s calendars and agendas, at least for this current year. For example, on 19 April, I received an e-mail from the Quaestor, Mr Richard Balfe, which stated that that day was a restricted day and that the meetings planned for that day were cancelled. On 13 April, we had received a departmental note stipulating which days were holidays and which were not. I would ask Parliament’s competent bodies to plan and draw up timetables a year in advance, although I understand that unforeseen circumstances may require subsequent changes. However, to change dates, as this departmental note indicates, to introduce holidays which did not exist before, is a serious lapse in planning in an institution with 600 MEPs and thousands of employees. I would kindly request a little attention and organisation in relation to annual planning. –  Mr President, I simply wish to refer to the official status of Strasbourg, a wonderful city which nevertheless has a series of defects. Yesterday, I left home before 1 p.m. and arrived here just before 8 p.m. I had been moving from airport to airport. Then, fortunately, the City of Strasbourg provides a service to bring us here, but it consists of a bus which picks up a large number of passengers and we end up wasting a lot of time. I believe that this is a great city, where we should perhaps all meet once a year, but the rest of the time we should act in a pragmatic manner, take a practical approach to finances and work in one single headquarters, where we should all be located. This is much more sensible, much more rational, and I believe that that is how we should view it and, while we should praise this great city for its official status, we have to operate efficiently. – Mr President, certain circumstances could have justified postponing this report to a time when everything was available, including the amendments. However, in any event, I believe that we, as MEPs, must take the work forward so that the MEDA report is not delayed at any time, with the resulting harm that that could mean for the countries concerned. Having expressed these reservations, I shall summarise the MEDA programme. I shall then give my opinion of the proposed regulation, as well as the report as a whole. As is well known, the MEDA programme comes within the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, which was created after the Barcelona declaration of November 1995. The Foreign Affairs Ministers of the European Union participated in that meeting. This is an initiative which encompasses 27 countries from both sides of the Mediterranean. On the one side, there are the 15 states of the Union and, on the other, Algeria, Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Syria, Tunisia, Turkey and the Palestinian territories. As for Libya, for obvious reasons, it only has observer status. Our main objective, through this cooperation, is to forge links, especially in the numerous areas of common interest which we share with our Mediterranean neighbours. To this end, around EUR 3 500 million have been invested over the last five years, shared between two broad cooperation formulae: bilateral and regional. Specifically, this economic and financial aid must facilitate the completion of a free trade area by 2010, to which end aid programmes have been implemented, both for macroeconomic reforms and for sectoral reforms and structural adjustments. We must remember that the ratio between the per capita income of the European Union and the MEDA countries is 1 to 10, that is to say a very considerable gap. Therefore, in my judgement, it is logical that the sustainable economic development of the area should be our main goal. In this regard, I must add that the commercial balance between these two blocks favours the European Union to the tune of EUR 21 billion. Meanwhile, measures are also being considered to facilitate private investment in these 12 countries, which in 1994 amounted to EUR 3 500 million, particularly by means of updating legislation and administration, as well as by means of meetings between companies belonging to the MEDA countries and the European Union. We should also remember that we are discussing an area of the world which is particularly affected by military conflict. There is no point in listing the different wars being waged by many of the countries which are members of this partnership. The MEDA programme seeks to clear the way towards a definitive and lasting peace in that part of the world by means, amongst other things, of economic stability. We are talking about a population of around 230 million people which, given the current rate of growth, will reach 300 million in 10 or 12 years time. There is a significant diversity of religions and traditions in all of those countries and this is one of the pillars on which the European Union’s work is based. As you know, MEDA also includes a short- and medium-term action programme for the environment, which aims to reverse the current environmental deterioration in the area. Turning now to an analysis of the Commission’s proposal, I think the proposal as a whole is insufficient, partly because of the criticisms made about the implementation of this programme. The Commission principally defines three initiatives for achieving greater efficiency: on the one hand, making the decision-making process more dynamic, focussing the activity of the “MED Committee” on strategic planning and programming. The national and regional funding plans will be adopted annually on the basis of indicative programmes. It also proposes an increase in programming and implementation abilities, for which greater human resources must be provided. Lastly, the Commission intends to scale down procedures in order to achieve more effective implementation and increase the percentage of programmes that are implemented. Specifically, the intention is to develop common harmonised procedures for all aid programmes. Finally, I wish to say that I believe this report is important because anything that helps the countries to the south of us, in turn, helps us. – Mr President, the report by Mr Linkohr is really good and I am therefore very happy to congratulate him. The European Community and the Republic of Argentina have a great interest in cooperating in terms of mutual assistance because, despite the fact that Argentina is a young country, I believe that it is very important that this Latin American area should be fully associated with the fifth framework programme for technological research and development. I agree with the rapporteur that this form of cooperation must be promoted in the Latin American region as a whole and that we should provide impetus for the negotiation of the agreement with Mercosur, an agreement which – I think we have to accept – I believe has come to a bit of a halt or, to put it another way, has not proceeded at the speed which we expected in 1995 when we approved it and when the Agreement on Interregional Cooperation was signed between the European Union and Mercosur in Madrid. With regard to other possible forms of cooperation, we must follow a logical order of priorities, starting, as proposed, with member countries of the said area, that is to say, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brazil and Argentina, and then moving on to their associated countries – Chile, Bolivia, etc – with which, as we all know, the European Union is discussing an interregional association. I would also like to highlight the fact that we are looking at a good example of how a country which has still not achieved its maximum level of development will commit itself to a sustained form of growth which respects the environment through the use of renewable energy, by means of this agreement on scientific and technological cooperation. Finally, I believe that it is very important to establish these regular contacts between the European Parliament and Argentina, not only in this area, but also in the economic, social and cultural fields, since it is an obligation of the European Union to consolidate our presence in that country with which we Europeans have so much in common. –  Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, as chairman of this Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries, Mr Prodi, you are not making things easy for me at all. I feel duty bound to publicly denounce the fact that fishing is absent from the programme which you have presented to us. The next five years of the Prodi Commission – as you solemnly announce in the first of your conclusions – will mean great change. I hope that this change will not mean an even greater marginalisation of fishing, since the silence of your programme, with regard to fishing, is deafening. Not a single line, nor a single word, refers to fishing or the CFP. I am not asking for details or specific points, but I believe that a mention was required. How could you completely ignore a common – I repeat; common – policy with such an economic, social and regional impact, and which therefore affects the economic and social cohesion of Europe? This is all the more serious, if that is possible – as others have said – bearing in mind that your Commission, Mr Prodi, has to carry out nothing less than a revision or reform of the current common fisheries policy, which you are legally required to do in 2002. Does the Commission intend to do nothing – at least it has announced nothing – about this reform in 2000 either? What message can we send to the fishermen of Europe, and their families, and the fishing industries, both the extractive and processing and marketing industries, and the related and secondary industries which depend on fishing in so many European ports, in so many European regions, in most cases peripheral regions, who rightly demand that this problem be dealt with as a priority? You have made an explicit reference to the CAP for the coming years, but you have not done so for the CFP, with regard to the double adaptation of the internal market which is necessary to prevent exceptions – as has already been said – and in a global context, in the context of globalisation. This House has expressed its opinion on the first issue and it will also do so on the second. I would therefore ask you, Mr Prodi, to make an explicit reference to this problem in your reply today. Our parliamentary Group will table an amendment in this respect and we expect a positive message from you. – Mr President, I would also like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Attwooll, for the spirit of consensus she has created in our committee in order to arrive at compromise amendments, particularly with Mrs Fraga Estevez and to substantially improve, as has been said, the Commission’s proposal on a key issue, which we all recognise, in the current common fisheries policy and in the policy that we are creating for the coming years. European fleet policy is a sensitive and complicated issue – this is something we all agree upon. However, if each State defends its own interests and only complies when it is in its own interest, we clearly get nowhere. Therefore, the Commission must rise to the challenge, through an effective policy accepted by everyone, of designing a fleet that is really suited to our fishing needs. A safe, effective and competitive fleet. Mrs Attwooll’s report, like the report by Mr Busk, is currently of fundamental importance. We want it to draw attention, on the one hand, to the fact that the increase in onboard safety measures has nothing to do with increasing fishing capacity or power, and on the other, to the need not to introduce substantial last-minute changes to programmes which have been in operation for five years, because an annual extension is one thing, but to change fundamental conditions in the general philosophy of the MAGPs now, at the last minute, is quite another. I therefore hope that the House supports this message which the Committee on Fisheries wants to send this afternoon, and that the Commission will, of course, take it into account. – Commissioner, it is certain that the 125 million euros that there were for chapter IV, obviously aimed at Morocco, are not going to be used as planned. But if this agreement were going to be for three years, those concerned would be expecting 375 million euros from the solidarity of the European Union. We are all aware of this and we hope that the Commission will be generous in paying attention to the petitions from the Governments of Spain and Portugal. We will continue to work towards this in Parliament. But my question has a different aim. I wanted to ask the Commissioner if he is aware of the information that is being published in the Moroccan press at the moment, specifically in the weekly  and the magazine , where top military, political and diplomatic figures in Morocco are being accused of having blocked this agreement to protect their own personal interests. It is currently being said in the Moroccan press that they only declare 60% of their catches and that they are lining their own pockets. This, according to what is being said in Morocco at the moment, seems to be the real reason. They were not concerned about fishing resources, as they told us, or the Moroccan fisheries sector, or even the Moroccan people, but something else. Is the Commission aware of these reports that are being published? They give names. If so, is it aware of what is going on and are political, economic, financial and trade relations with Morocco going to be re-established in the light of what is happening, which is just what we suspected, and which was the real cause of the failure to cooperate with the European Union? – Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to express my regret, firstly at the fact that the Council cannot reply to this oral question which had originally been formulated by our Committee for both the Commission and the Council. For whatever reason the Council is not going to reply to this question. I am pleased, however, that this debate is taking place today instead of being, as is usually the case, one of the last items on the agenda of the last day of one of our Strasbourg part-sessions. I hope that these debates can take place during the sittings on the “important days” in Strasbourg, because fishing deserves it, and an agreement of the importance of the one we will discuss today, even more so. I would especially like to thank Mr Fischler for his punctual presence, and to thank him also for honouring the promise that he made to the Committee on Fisheries, in the hearing of 30 August, when he told us that he would give priority to the fisheries agreement with Morocco, which can be seen from the promptness with which he has drawn up a proposed mandate for negotiation. I wish therefore for this expression of thanks to be noted. We must also congratulate ourselves on the fact that the Council has approved, despite the storm clouds which had gathered, this proposed mandate. Therefore, we now have a mandate for negotiation of the fisheries agreement with Morocco. If we add to this the fact that the two budgetary authorities – that is, the Council and Parliament – have declared themselves in favour of the political priority of funding this fisheries agreement, we will conclude, Mr Fischler, that “all” that is left is to negotiate and sign it. That is your challenge now, with no doubt whatsoever, but in this task you can count on the support of this Parliament and of course the help of the Committee on Fisheries which I preside over. I would like to inform you that on the 29th in our committee we will have a wide-ranging audience with the sector affected by this fisheries agreement with Morocco and the participation of the European Commission would also be desirable. I am sure it is not necessary, Mr Fischler, to emphasise once again the importance of this agreement with Morocco to certain Member States, such as Spain and Portugal, and to certain autonomous communities such as Galicia, Andalusia and the Canary Islands, all of which, as is well known, come within Objective 1, are very dependent on fishing and at the moment have no other fishing grounds for their fleets and have a business structure which does not allow certain types of cooperation. Commissioner, you will have the opportunity to observe what we are talking about on your next visit to Galicia, which we await with open arms. A significant amount of the supply of fish to the European market depends on this agreement, as do many direct jobs, as well as many more involved in the industry and services. The proposed resolutions presented speak for themselves and I need no more evidence. The recent seminar between Europe and Morocco which took place in our own Parliament highlighted the great interest, at the highest level, which Morocco has in Europe. “Cooperation” has been the mostly commonly used word. Well, the cooperation which the European Union is asking of Morocco at the moment is in the specific field of fishing. In relation to fishing we have no choice but to understand each other and cooperate. It is not a matter of exchanging one thing for another: fruit for fish. It is a matter of cooperating in the area of fishing. It is a matter of reaching the best possible agreement in terms of fishing cooperation. When? How? Fortunately the European Union is an economic, financial and commercial power. Fortunately we have structural mechanisms which provide for the negotiation contingencies. And, at the moment, I call on the Finnish Presidency to go ahead in the next Council with the FIFG Regulations and on the Commission, Mr Fischler, to be flexible in this text so that it may come closer to the position of the European Parliament. It is urgent that we foresee these contingencies in our structural aid and also, in exceptional cases, both for shipowners and for fishermen. In this way, we should not be excessively hasty: our legislative and budgetary forecasts allow us to deal with a protracted negotiation. It is better to have a prolonged negotiation, resulting in a good agreement, than a bad one achieved quickly. What kind of agreement, Commissioner? One which continues to allow the fishing activities of the different fleets which today fish in those waters. What kind of cooperation? The widest possible, which must also include extractive cooperation, since if Europe is the principal market for the export of Moroccan fish, to subscribe to cooperation in terms of marketing and processing is not what is necessary, given that the market is controlled from the centres of consumption rather than from the centres of production. In any event, Mr Fischler, a genuine association policy should involve the opening up of that country to European investments, including in the field of extractive fishing. This will allow us to compete under equal conditions, putting Europeans and Moroccans on the same footing. Equality has to be both real and effective and therefore non-discriminatory with regard to measures for the conservation of resources. Let us make sure, Commissioner, that what happened with the agreement with Argentina never happens again. Effective measures concerning the monitoring and control of the issues agreed, equally applicable to both parties, will be necessary. Nobody has a greater interest than the European Union in protecting resources and fishing responsibly. Let us ensure that the other party guarantees that it will apply these measures in the reproduction areas of the various species, where European fleets do not fish, and in those areas where both parties fish, and that closed seasons and temporary fishing bans are also applied, without discrimination and with a mutual system of control. Commissioner, the European Parliament will support you politically and financially. That is why we have asked to be associated with this negotiation, which I hope will be approved in the coming tripartite meetings. Therefore, Mr Fischler, now – as we say in my country, on which you will no doubt become a great expert – good luck and  [take the bull by the horns]. . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a very important person is missing from the Chamber today, our rapporteur. Mr Cunha, as our President has said, has been called away to take up other political duties in his homeland, in the north of Portugal, and that is where he has gone. I would like firstly to congratulate him, as does the whole of this House I believe, for the good memories we all have of him and we wish him great success in his new role. Today we are debating his report, and I have the honour, as coordinator of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of presenting it to you. We are dealing with a very complete and very positive report, enriched with the amendments approved in our Committee on Fisheries. It describes all the enormous possibilities offered by international fisheries agreements, both for the European Union and for third countries. There remain in this Parliament certain recalcitrant Members who are dubious about the international fisheries agreements, but fortunately there are far fewer of them than in 1994 when we discussed this issue in this Parliament. The vast majority recognise their enormous advantages. Recently, 24 developing countries, who met in Galicia on 16 and 17 September at the , approved the conclusions of the fourth Conference of Fisheries Ministers, all of them calling for the maintenance and increase of international fisheries agreements as instruments for trade and development cooperation. That the benefits are mutual, nobody calls into question. And neither that they are essential to both parties. And that there must be no discrimination or differentiated treatment between certain agreements, such us those in the North, and others, such as those in the South, either. The development cooperation in the field of fisheries represented by international fisheries agreements is obvious; and that, through them, the European Union is achieving responsible fishing in these third-country fishing grounds and the development of a sustainable fisheries sector, is also obvious. The developing countries, at the fourth world conference which I have just referred to, all called for more cooperation, for more investments in their countries, for more scientists, for more joint undertakings, and this is undoubtedly the way forward for the future. Namibia, for example, is today a world fishing power, a zealous guardian of its fisheries resources and sustainable fishing, and this is all the result of European investments. Neither should we forget the essential commercial aspect of these fisheries agreements for the European Union, where they generate work for our fleets, jobs for our fishermen and work for our processing industries. Europe has the example of the adversity caused by the failure to renew certain fisheries agreements, as in the case of Morocco, which is still a controversial issue for this Parliament. And now it is also aware of the urgent need for relocation in other fishing grounds, within the context of these agreements, and for formulas, such as mixed undertakings and temporary associations of companies, when recovery plans are approved in accordance with scientific reports, which the European Union is the first to respect, such as those which are currently taking place in Community waters and non-Community waters, in external waters, as in the case of halibut in the NAFO. In summary, the international fisheries agreements are an essential mechanism for the European Union and for the third countries, since both parties benefit mutually from them, as the Cunha report points out in a crystal clear fashion. I therefore hope to have this House's support tomorrow in the vote. –  Madam President, I have requested the floor in order to speak about Tuesday’s joint debate on fisheries. A major debate has been scheduled for that day and the Conference of Presidents has decided to include a Commission statement on the Fisheries Agreement with Morocco without a resolution. As you know, this is a very sensitive issue and I would ask you to clarify a few things, as the inclusion of this issue may somewhat distort the overall debate. I would ask you first of all to state at whose behest this was included, in other words, whether it was the Commission itself that made the request or one of the political groups. Furthermore, in accordance with the debate’s agenda, the normal course of action would be for the joint debate on the four reports to take place and then for the Commission’s statement to be made and a further debate on this to take place. Since it no longer appears possible for events to take place in this way, because the political groups have already distributed Members’ speaking times, I would ask that, in this case, the Commission statement should be the first item so that Members may speak in the debate and so that the Commission statement is not made in the middle of the debate, which would prevent all Members from being in an equal position to respond to this statement by the Commission. . –  Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, because yesterday we debated this subject in committee, and especially also on behalf of all the rapporteurs of the reports we are to discuss today, and if the Commissioner, with whom I have spoken, has no objection, and it seems he has not, I should like to ask you if we might first hear the statement from the Commissioner himself and then we the rapporteurs could speak in the order laid down. That is what I should like to ask you, Mr President. Mr President, we have asked the competent services to make a linguistic correction because Amendment No 2 has been tabled in English and there are other versions which contain the word ‘considerable’, which does not appear in the English version, which is the true one. I would ask that this correction be made. – Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I would thank the rapporteur for explicitly mentioning the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries, although we regret that it has not been included in the report. I say this especially, Commissioner, so that you can communicate to the Commission, and particularly to Mr Fischler, the fact that the common fisheries policy is one of the few areas of Community activity where until now very few steps have been taken in the creation of a genuine internal market. The lack of action is related to the original conception of this policy. The current Council Regulation No 3760/92 establishing a Community system for fisheries and aquaculture, provides for derogations in respect of the internal market, notably in Articles 6 and 7, which allow derogations from the principle of freedom of access to fishing grounds, so that Member States have the right of exclusive exploitation of their fisheries resources within a 12-mile coastal band, as well as a series of preferential fishing rights, through application of the ‘relative stability’ principle, which distributes national fishing quotas. At the same time it lays down restrictions on exercising fishing activities in certain areas known as ‘boxes’. These restrictions on the principle of freedom of action, which were originally intended to be temporary restrictions, have been extended and will be in force until 1 January 2003 as a mechanism to allow certain Member States’ fishing industries to adapt to the rules of free competition in an increasingly open and globalised market. Over 20 years have passed and, as we are about to embark upon a general review of all aspects of the common fisheries policy which, for compelling legal reasons, must take place in 2002, it is now time, I believe, to examine whether the transitional period for adaptation to free competition provided for in the said regulation should be ended. In my opinion, the fishing industry and the common fisheries policy should also be subject to derogations in respect of the internal market. Therefore, the principles and fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Treaties should also be applied to fisheries, in other words, the framework of the common fisheries policy should be brought into line with the general legal framework of Community legislation. –  Madam President, I must start by regretting the absence of Commissioner Fischler. I believe this debate is important enough to deserve his presence here today. Rigorous, transparent, verified scientific reports, carried out together with the industry, should be the first pillar of the CFP reform in order to have credibility in the conservation of our fishery species. We need to diagnose the true state of the stocks precisely and accurately, because otherwise we could be using a sledgehammer to crack a nut. The European Union should be a global example of marine research, but it is not, not even – and I say this to Commissioner Fischler – with his proposed reform, which pushes science into the background. Last week at a meeting of marine scientists, Mr Robin Cook, of the Aberdeen marine research laboratory and an advisory member of the ICES, stated that the fisheries reform proposed was based on scientific reports that were very poor and which lacked transparency. John Molloy of the Dublin Marine Institute – as you can see I do not mention any Spanish scientists here – said that ‘fishermen are scientists’ and that we need to use the raft of first-hand information they have, which is currently being ignored. The Canadian scientist McGuire has also rejected the hake catastrophe reports. The industry rejects them outright. We are aware that the ICES and the Scientific and Technical Committee on Fisheries do not agree, and they again brought up the review of current hake reports at Lisbon and Copenhagen. Mr Fischler, without an economic, social and regional impact assessment, proposes equating cod and hake, which are very different species and very different situations; and he adopts drastic, irreversible measures to cut down the fleet as if there were no other alternative measures that would maintain the stock while we wait for conclusive reports. I call on the Commissioner to think it over for once. The Committee on Fisheries approved Amendment 1 – I see the rapporteur is against separating the two species – and I hope the House will adopt it. If not, I hope the Council can bring it back in. We want to protect stocks but not at just any price, not through just any measure. We want the ecological reports to include economic and social reports, and we must take into account the industry which has been fishing in the same waters for several generations, and they do not understand the Commission’s proposal, in view of the results they are getting, and they want other biological reference points to be selected that are broad in scope and more rigorous. I therefore call on the Commission to go deeper into CFP reform and marine research, and to devote more human and material resources to it. I call on it to review the proposal for hake, since the industry that depends on it demands more transparency, more participation, more dialogue, more objectivity and more reliability before it will accept the proposals that the Commission puts before us. – Madam President, with regard to the amendment tabled by the Chairperson of the Committee on Budgets, I support the proposal made by our rapporteur and, also, in agreement with what the Commission said, I would like to say that we have always spoken about this proposal from the point of view of fisheries and we do not involve ourselves with the budgetary aspects. However, although what Mr Wynn proposes is true – that, as is stated here, the proposal was not included in the financial perspectives – it is nonetheless certain, and for this reason the House must also be provided with this information, that the Commission has requested the use of the flexibility instrument, providing this proposal, in due time, with EUR 197 million. Therefore, we are in favour of this proposal from the Committee on Budgets, but we would remind our fellow Members in this committee, and the Council, that they should come to an agreement with regard to the use of this instrument and provide the proposal with this EUR 197 million, which is necessary so that fishermen and the families affected can resolve this problem. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Miguélez, on her report on a just cause – as others have said – which we have all supported for a very long time, including the Spanish Government, as the Commissioner is aware. I wished to take advantage of this modification of the Regulation on aid for the conversion of the fleet which fished in Morocco to point out that what was done then must not be the exception, but the rule. In other words, when Community fleets need to be converted, either due to a failure to renew international fisheries agreements, or due to a drastic reduction in catches owing to recovery plans – and our British colleagues are well aware of this, particularly the Scottish Members, in relation to cod – the European Commission should automatically provide for additional measures to compensate these fleets and deal with the new situation. We should not therefore make partial modifications to the general Regulation on FIFG structural aid whenever a situation such as this occurs, but rather there should be a permanent general framework in order to provide aid whenever it happens, either as a result of species recovery plans in Community waters or in external waters when they affect our fleet, the Community fleet. This has been the case recently with the Community halibut fleet in NAFO waters, where the Commission proposed a recovery plan for halibut which was accepted and which involves dropping from 42 000 tonnes this year, 2003, to 16 000 tonnes in 2007, a reduction of 62%. And since it appears here that nothing has happened, I say that the Commission must be obliged to do something in order not to jeopardise the future of this fleet. And it must take appropriate action by adopting extraordinary measures such as relocation to other fishing grounds, the promotion of experimental campaigns and the granting of other socio-economic aid which we have been asking for in order to compensate for the situation which has been created. Our intention in presenting this amendment which, Commissioner, is not a ‘Varela’ amendment but an amendment tabled by the Committee on Fisheries, is to resolve these problems and any future problems. If our Parliament approves it tomorrow, my request to you, Commissioner, is that the Commission should consider this since the sector in question is calling for it. It is asking you to do something. The European Parliament wishes to help you and be your ally and an ally of the sector and therefore ensure in this way that the European Commission takes action. This is my opinion and I hope, Mr Fischler, that you will consider what has been said before taking the initiative you have announced. I would like to end – since I will not have time later – by congratulating Chairman Stevenson, rapporteur for the report on Mozambique, which we are going to deal with next, because it is a wonderful report which deserves our support. – What the services have told us is that they were admissible and that they would be voted on. And I wish to say this, in any event, because the services of Parliament in committee accepted both amendments, we voted for both amendments, we approved them, they have been passed on to the plenum and now it turns out they are amendments to the content of the report. They are amendments with legislative content and there was no reason not to admit them, and I would like it to be noted that I am making a formal protest. – Mr President, I wished to speak on a point of order in accordance with Rule 142, observance of the Rules of Procedure, with regard to Rule 140 b) and c), which relate to the admissibility of amendments. Rule 140 b) and c) prohibits the presentation of an amendment aimed at replacing or deleting the whole of a text or which proposes amending more than one of the articles or paragraphs of the text it refers to. According to the services, if Amendment No 20 is approved, all the amendments presented to Parliament will lapse and so will all those that have been presented in committee, and its approval would also mean that the legislative text of the Commission’s proposal in its entirety would lapse as well. The Commission told us yesterday, through Commissioner Fischler, during the evening debate, that it was against Amendment No 20, that it was against the other amendments by the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, from No 21 to No 29, and said that they were contrary to the Treaty on the accession of Spain and Portugal. Mr President, Amendment No 20 intends to extend the Treaty on the accession of Spain and Portugal, which I believe to be legally unacceptable since it contravenes the Community . Mr President, I would like the services to tell me what the admissibility of this amendment is based on. I would like them please to speak to me directly, or, if not, write to me, because I believe we are violating Community law and taking a step backwards in terms of European integration. . Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Fisheries has unanimously approved the report for which I was rapporteur and that today is included in the Lannoye report. I requested the Hughes procedure, because the matter has a profound effect on both fisheries and development cooperation. I sincerely believe that we in the Committee on Fisheries have significantly improved the original draft of the Lannoye report. We have contributed to focusing and balancing the hitherto exclusive point of view of the Committee on Development and Cooperation and particularly the opinions of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, that were held on this matter. International fisheries agreements are not harmful to fishing, to the European Union, or to third countries, as is sometimes claimed. On the contrary, they are beneficial to all. We should try to ensure that this mutual benefit is enjoyed by all those concerned, and this cannot be achieved only by means of the CFP. The development cooperation policy should become more involved, with more economic, financial and technical measures, as requested by our report and as shown in the information given in the explanatory statement. International fisheries agreements are trade agreements as the Council of the European Union acknowledged, even though they are dedicating more and more of their own funds to cooperation, yet they are of fundamental importance to cover the deficit in the supply of fish in the European Union and for jobs in Europe’s Objective 1 regions that we must also treat as a priority. Employment and economic and social cohesion in Europe are fundamental political principles of our Union. Are we keen to preserve the resources of third countries? Of course. Is anyone more conservation-minded than the European Union? Would other foreign fishing powers, in Asia, for example, which would take our place if we left them to it, have more respect for these resources? Of course not. I think that the criticisms voiced in the Lannoye report on the agreements with Mauritania and Senegal are completely unfounded. I also disagree with the regional approach that is proposed, because international fisheries agreements apply to exclusive economic zones that are come under the sovereignty of third countries, and each State is sovereign and has different political and economic interests. Multilateral cooperation in international waters would be another matter altogether. I think, Mr President, that our Parliament has taken a positive step forwards. We would still ask the Commission to coordinate its cooperation and fishing competences. Parliament has set an example by coordinating our two committees and I think that this is right way to defend European interests, combining principles that we all advocate, such as the conservation of mankind’s natural resources and the eradication of poverty in the Third World, which requires development cooperation. – Mr President, I had asked the question as a result of Mr Kinnock’s first reply, before Mrs Miguélez asked her question. I had understood from Mr Kinnock that the ship was in fact being inspected in a Portuguese port and that this inspection had taken place in the presence of Community inspectors. I understand, from his second reply, that he does not yet have the result of that inspection. That is what I wanted him to clarify. If he does have it, I would like him to say so, but I understand from his second reply that he does not. If that is the case I believe it would be prudent and logical for us to await the final result. I would ask Mr Kinnock to communicate to Mr Fischler that, as chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to know the result of that inspection as soon as possible. I would like to receive it because this Parliament will have to act accordingly. In any event, I would like to condemn, in support of Mrs Miguélez, the abuse of authority on the part of the Canadian NAFO inspectors which Mr Kinnock mentioned. I would therefore like to make that request and condemn this violation of NAFO regulations. Mr� President, Commissioner, I must firstly congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs� Miguélez Ramos, on her excellent report. The strengthening of dialogue between the Commission and the industry affected by the common fisheries policy is very important and has many social repercussions. Like the rapporteur, I must underline how curious it is that the Commission is consulting Parliament on aspects which we might regard as being secondary in the organisation of this dialogue. Yet it did not ask this House about the composition, organisation and functions of the Advisory Committee on Fisheries which is the key body in this dialogue. As the direct and democratic representative of the people, the European Parliament should have been consulted on this body and on the representativeness of the various sectors involved. Having said this, we will have to wait for the new committee to start work in order to assess its activity. This is why I regard as positive the contributions made by the Miguélez Ramos report on the aspects of financial control of the costs and greater transparency in management. In this way, the maximum amount of information will be provided, both to Parliament and the Council, so that the strengthening of the dialogue intended by the Commission can be monitored by everyone. I hope that the Commission will take note of our comments and concerns as we will be watching the development and operation of the new committee very closely. We hope that the links between the Committee on Fisheries of this House and the Advisory Committee will be effective in order to encourage a real strengthening of the social and industrial dialogue on fishing. . – Madam President, unfortunately I have to inform you and the House of a new tragedy at sea. A few days ago, a French vessel, the , based in Brittany, was shipwrecked. Eight of its crewmembers died. Yesterday, the fishing vessel , which was flying the British flag – and like the , was fishing in Irish waters – was also shipwrecked. The majority of its crew were Spanish. The result could not have been more horrendous, Madam President. Of the thirteen crewmembers, only one survived. Five bodies have been found and the rest have disappeared. On my own behalf and on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries, I would ask you, Madam President, to send Parliament’s condolences to the families of the victims and to the local authorities in both Brittany and in Marín, Galicia, from where the majority of the victims came. I also wish it to be noted, Madam President, that the European Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries, which it is my honour and responsibility to chair, is very sensitive to these accidents at sea. This is demonstrated by the fact that we are currently producing a very significant own-initiative report, the rapporteur for which is our vice-chairperson, Mrs Miguélez, on the causes of accidents involving fishing vessels in the European Union. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries of this Parliament, I would like to speak briefly in this debate to highlight the great importance of structural policy in the fisheries sector and the need for it to be flexible in order to be adapted to specific situations, which is demonstrated today in this debate. I would like to start by congratulating all the rapporteurs, including those who are not part of the Committee on Fisheries, such as Mr Martínez Martínez, to whom I extend the congratulations, but I would like to focus, as is logical, on those who belong to our committee, Mr Poignant and Mrs Fraga, for the great skill of the work that they have presented to this Parliamentary sitting and for the strong support that they have achieved in our Committee on Fisheries. In the case of the report by my colleague Mr Poignant, we must welcome the inclusion of Article 299, item 2, of the Treaty as a legal basis and as an essential starting point for a new concept of the true dimension of the concept of outermost regions and for adjusting the ceilings for assistance. Our committee recently visited the island of Réunion on the initiative of our colleague Margie Sudre and I think that we all came back convinced of the need to help with generous solidarity to solve or at least to alleviate the specific and difficult problems that these very remote European territories have. In the case of the report by our colleague Mrs Fraga, we should also thank our committee for its unanimous solidarity in supporting the initiative to extend assistance to 31 December of this year for a specific sector that is so affected by the failure to renew the fisheries agreement with Morocco. The timetable for the European Union to approve a specific plan for those affected by this lack of agreement means that this extension is needed as a margin in order to carry out the plan without worsening the already very heavy impact that there has been. I only hope that both the Commission and the Council will take note of the unanimous position of the European Parliament. . –  Madam President, Commissioner, regional fisheries organisations, which regulate fishing operations outside the 200 miles of exclusive economic zones, play a fundamental role in the regulation and rational management of fishery resources in international waters. They will be called upon to play an even more important role in the immediate future. As a result, the European Union must strengthen its presence in such regional organisations, in those that already exist and in those that may be created in the future. Unfortunately, in terms of human and technical resources, the European Commission is, in our opinion, currently unable to be present in each and every one of these regional fisheries organisations with the commitment they deserve, or in a way that reflects the important interests the different Community fleets have in the various oceans on this planet. NAFO is an exception and has perhaps become the best attended, most regulated and most monitored organisation of them all. It is also true that the Commission is paying greater attention to some of these organisations, as in the case of the ICCAT. This is certainly an organisation that is no stranger to pressure from this House and, more specifically, from our Committee on Fisheries. However, there are a number of other organisations – to mention only those that relate to the tuna species – and, alongside the aforementioned Atlantic tuna organisation, there is a pressing need for our presence in, and commitment to, the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission, the IOTC, the Inter-American Commission for Tropical Tuna, the IATTC, or the MHLC, the Multilateral High Level Conference, which is negotiating the convention that will govern the Western Pacific Council. The European Commission needs to have an effective presence, both in terms of human and technical resources, in all these organisations and, as I said, in those that may be created in the future. Parliament will help, and we shall spare no effort in ensuring that, in such organisations, the European Union has a level of influence that corresponds to our fisheries sectors. These sectors are calling for such an influence in view of third countries which, incidentally, sometimes defend their interests more vigorously than we defend ours. NAFO has served as a model in many cases. The regulation we are now considering represents an attempt to incorporate decisions adopted by the organisation in 1997, 1998 and 1999 into Community legislation to make our internal measures more effective. In this case, we are dealing with the thorny issue of trying to ensure that vessels which are not part of the organisation respect the rules laid down by regional fisheries organisations. Such vessels, whether operating under flags of convenience or not, simply act freely whilst others respect provisions on the conservation of resources and, of course, contribute to these respective laws. We support the measures drawn up, measures which are still scarce and difficult to apply, but which will continue to increase the world’s awareness of responsible fishing and trade and make such awareness more effective. The measures suggested by this House’s Committee on Fisheries are along these lines. They are measures which clarify some concepts to ensure greater accuracy and improve, as far as possible, upon the already significant control measures in NAFO waters. As we all know, a Community vessel that was operating in NAFO waters, the Santa Mafalda, has been ordered into the Portuguese port of Aveiro with Canadian NAFO inspectors on board. Whilst we await the findings of the port inspection, we ask everyone to comply with the NAFO fisheries’ regulatory measures. These measures on the conservation of resources are essential if such resources are to be maintained. We also call on the Canadian authorities to behave in accordance with NAFO control measures and not to exceed their authority. During the plenary sitting on this matter, Mr Kinnock, Vice-President of the Commission, acknowledged that they had exceeded their duties in appropriating the ship’s documentation without the authorisation of the captain of the vessel. Attitudes such as these remind us of a time we thought we had left behind, a time when Canada created a crisis, which we do not wish to see repeated under any circumstances. Therefore, we ask for a forceful response from the European Commission to Canada over their behaviour and – I should like to stress this and then conclude – we ask everyone to behave appropriately in order to conserve resources and we ask them to comply strictly with the rules laid down by NAFO. . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Cunha, on the report which he has carried out. I would like first of all to express my support for the Agreement and for the position held by the European Commission, as well as the opinion expressed by Mrs Langenhagen, Mrs Fraga and Mr Medina. And I absolutely and radically disagree with the position of the previous speaker who has demonstrated a policy which shows very little solidarity with the Member States of the European Union and the fishermen. This policy fortunately has minority support in this Parliament. With regard to this report, I would like to point out that the fisheries agreement with Angola means a continuation of the common fisheries policy of the European Union with regard to international fisheries agreements, which contribute to the consolidation of one of the fundamental pillars of said policy. This was pointed out by Mr Crampton’s report to this Parliament in the previous legislature, this report stating that these agreements were a fundamental condition in the effort to reduce the commercial deficit in the European Union in the field of fishing, in fish supply and in order to protect direct and indirect employment in the fishing sector and in the industries related to fishing in the European regions which are heavily dependent on it. This was approved here during the last legislature. In relation to the Cunha report on the conclusion of a new Protocol which defines the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement with the Republic of Angola for the period from 3 May 1999 to 2 May 2000, I would like to point out that this is a classic Protocol, which allows for access to fishing resources during a certain period and sets a financial contribution. Despite the fact that certain information and statistics must be borne in mind, and the Commission has promised to be very strict about this, and also bearing in mind the delicate situation that that country is in – it is in a state of war – we believe that the conclusion of this provisional Protocol is very positive, in the hope that it will be renewed for a year or that a new agreement will be reached. This is a very important country geopolitically, with a very considerable potential wealth and which the European Union has to support, clearly helping it to put an end to the serious situation which it is in. But it must help in the best way possible for both parties: Angola, on the one hand, and the Member States of the European Union and the regions involved in fishing, on the other, with the control of this Parliament and in accordance with the amendments which the Committee on Fisheries has presented with regard to this important Agreement which has, as has just been pointed out here, a considerable political dimension, as well as economic and financial dimensions. Therefore, Commissioner, on this question and with regard to fisheries agreements in general, as was demonstrated yesterday in the important debate which we held in relation to the fisheries agreement with Morocco, you will always enjoy the favourable, generally majority, opinion of the Committee on Fisheries, and I hope that you will continue to enjoy the favourable opinion of this Parliament. –  Mr President, I raise to table a point of order about the Minutes. I am now receiving the Minutes later than I did previously and I have still not received the Minutes from Wednesday. I have, on the other hand, received the Minutes from Tuesday, on which my name does not appear in the attendance register. I should like this to be corrected because I was indeed present. Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Sterckx, I would like to begin by joining in the congratulations you have received today and I simply want to remind you that those of us in our group who are congratulating you have fully supported your report in committee and that many of those who have congratulated you today opposed your report in committee or abstained. I want you to take into account the sincere congratulations of our group and I would also like to join in the congratulations for our Commissioner, Loyola de Palacio, for the rigour, efficiency and seriousness she has demonstrated in her work on maritime safety since taking up her position. I believe that there are significant differences between the outlook that existed previously and the outlook today. There have been very significant proposals and changes and in your report, as has been mentioned here, you put forward 112 issues that are of great importance. I also want to highlight a major change that has taken place in the IMO, which up to now was practically immovable. Corridors have been created as have particularly sensitive sea areas from Scotland to the Algarve, where vessels carrying dangerous cargo must report their arrival 48 hours in advance. We are on the right path, but we must ask ourselves if this is enough. I would like to join the Commissioner in reminding you, as she has always done here, that if the Erika packages that she proposed to us had been approved, the  accident would not have happened. I think that that is very important and we must not forget it because the key lies precisely in regulations and compliance. In my view, Parliament is still responsible for monitoring compliance in each of the Member States. Monitoring and adapting these proposals is our duty. Therefore, we must not lower our guard and we must continue to be constantly vigilant as well as being constant allies of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, that is what the citizens are asking of those of us who represent them here and, first and foremost, Galicians, since they have suffered these consequences at their core to a greater extent than anyone. We have thus proposed the creation of a specific committee, with a clear and positive mandate, which is to monitor this legislation and demonstrably increase maritime safety, ensuring compliance. I believe that this is a key issue that I want to pass on to Mr Sterckx, who will no doubt be aware of it. It has already been said here, and I am not going to repeat it, that others seek to drag out these processes, perhaps by obstructing the actions we are proposing and prolonging the granting of compensation. A debate of a different type could also promote or encourage with these committees of inquiry interests that have been called mafias here; I would say the oil companies. If we sow seeds of doubt as to the responsibilities, we will benefit other parties who are also responsible for what has happened. All in all, we cannot with our actions take it upon ourselves to act as judges and hand down guilty sentences to anyone. That is not our role and indeed we are forbidden from doing so by Article 193 of the Treaty and our Rules of Procedure, as this case is already being examined before the courts. It is our role to stamp out easy money and businesses without scruples in maritime transport that damage the marine environment and its resources. We in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are going to be active in defending those interests and in eradicating ‘rubbish boats’. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I want to emphasise that the Galicians are not abandoned, they have never been abandoned, either by the Galician Government, by the Spanish Government or by the European Commission. I also want to point out that, as you know, Mr Sterckx, in the electoral process that took place in the so-called ground zero, in Muxía, the majority supported the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which was governing and which continues to govern, and the citizens are very knowledgeable in this matter. Fortunately, at present all of the fishing grounds in Galicia are open, the entire coast is open for fishing and the necessary resources to resolve all of these problems are being provided through the generosity of the Spanish Government and the Galician Government via the so-called ‘Galicia Plan’. –  There is a great deal of concern in Galicia, Commissioner. This is an Objective 1 region affected by BSE where a model plan to combat the disease is being strictly implemented. Commissioner, I should like to know whether, under the measures you referred to, direct aid to farmers is already being provided or will soon be. In particular, since I have been asked to query this, have any specific measures been authorised or are there plans to do so concerning heifers aged between 9 and 24 months? Also, are there plans to adjust the special premium for the slaughter of steers, changing the criterion from age to weight: 185 kilos? These are the requests I have received and they would be useful in the context of combating this disease. – Commissioner, you know that unfair competition on the part of Korea has been proven. The Commission has been there and has seen it. We are now facing a long process. We will possibly have to wait half a year to know whether or not the World Trade Organisation will condemn the unfair competition of the Koreans. And we must not forget that Mr Valdivielso de Cué asked you if the Commission believed that, without the aid which the shipbuilding industry had received, this industry would have been able to survive in the European Union. This is a dramatic issue. Mr Valdivielso de Cué referred to Spain, to the Basque Country and I must refer to Galicia, which is an Objective 1 region, with a very important shipbuilding tradition and which is asking, because it is an Objective 1 region, for this aid to be maintained in some way until the dispute in the World Trade Organisation is settled. The WTO will condemn – it must condemn – the unfair competition on the part of Korea. That is the question: is the Commission prepared to prolong certain aid, at least in the case of the most needy regions that have a major shipbuilding tradition, so that they can survive in the face of this unfair competition? –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I consider the proposal of the PPE-DE Group that an own-initiative report should be drawn up on the fish processing industry was a good one. And, in light of the magnificent report that has been produced, I also welcome the fact that it was drafted by our rapporteur, Mrs Langenhagen, whom I wish to congratulate once again on her work. As our rapporteur said, we feel that the Commission is not addressing the issue of this industry with the appropriate seriousness. The Green Paper is a clear example of this. This is why we expect more from the Commission in terms of its proposals, and I would say that this report is apt for that very reason. The Langenhagen report addresses the problem as a whole. In 1998, we drew up a specific report on the canning industry – for which I had the honour of being rapporteur – but this report provides an update and, furthermore, encompasses the entire industry, including frozen products and the marketing aspects, as well as the products of aquaculture. From Mrs Langenhagen’s report I should like to highlight her observations on both the global and European frameworks, taking account of enlargement. In the first case, she considers the liberalisation of imports of raw materials, which is very important, and makes specific exceptions for sensitive products such as tuna loins. She also refers to quality, to the environmental and health and hygiene standards of European products compared to imports, in order to protect European consumers from labelling fraud, which has occurred in the cases of sardines and tuna. At European level, as has been said, plans are being made to deal with the consequences of the candidate countries’ accession, but in a way that does not damage the industry in regions which are behind in economic terms, and which are currently experiencing difficulties. Lastly, the report calls for our fisheries products to be promoted more vigorously and for more assistance with R+D to be given to our companies. I wish to conclude by stating, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party, that we will be supporting the three amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists but that we shall be voting against Amendment No 4 by the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reform Party, because we feel that the text submitted by our rapporteur is better. Mr President, Commissioner – whose presence we are grateful for – ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, Mr Souchet, on the wonderful report he has presented to us, on an issue which was not at all easy – Northern hake. Firstly, the Commission presented us with a proposal which, initially, was combined with cod – and which our Parliament rejected, as has been said already. Secondly, it made a separate, but very rigid and severe, proposal, which compared Northern hake with cod, with a genuine recovery plan and with fishing effort. Our Parliament had been consulted at the same time as the Council, and the negotiations were carried out in parallel, which obliged our rapporteur to be flexible in terms of adopting our draft report. Mr Souchet has made a serious study of issues relating to hake – as he has said, our Committee on Fisheries spoke to the sector – and has presented a report which fundamentally changes the Commission's original conceptions, for which he has our full support and thanks. I would also like to thank Mr Souchet for having accepted the numerous amendments which we had presented on behalf of the Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – I am truly grateful to him for this – since we have ensured that it is not a recovery plan, but rather a genuine management plan. I would like to draw the Commission's attention to this issue: it is a genuine management plan without fisheries effort, in accordance with the sector's request. The Souchet report is coherent, solid, reasonable and combines the defence of sustainable and responsible fishing of Northern hake with the social and economic aspects of the fisheries sector. The combination of these two aspects is something fundamental which we hope will be taken into account in the future. We believe that the future regional advisory councils will have to help us not to take false steps and to present proposals for the management of fisheries resources which have the consensus of both scientists and the sector itself. We have also appointed Mr Souchet rapporteur for the future management plan for Southern hake. Although it will possibly be the next Parliament established following the June elections which has to deal with this issue, the Committee on Fisheries will have to hold the necessary meetings so that, having heard the advisory councils which are created in this regard, both scientists and the sector can take part in the debates on Southern hake, and this must take place in parallel with the socio-economic measures we have requested and adopted already in the modification of the FIFG. And more importantly: in the future, the FIFG will have to provide for socio-economic measures so that, when any recovery or management plan is adopted, it is automatically accompanied by the corresponding socio-economic measures. We congratulate Mr Souchet once again and we hope that by means of this report, which we will vote on tomorrow, we will have taken a very important step in terms of supporting sustainable fisheries and the fisheries sector. –  Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner and also Mr Stevenson for the solidarity he has shown for Galicia as chairman of the Committee on Fisheries. Ladies and gentlemen, though there are not many Members present in the Chamber at this time of night, I would like to point out that the renewal of the agreement with Morocco was one of the most important objectives of the Committee on Fisheries. When this agreement was not achieved, we went out of our way to ensure that the budget that had been earmarked for the agreement would go instead to the fisherman affected. After some very difficult political and budgetary negotiations we secured this money. The practical application of the regulations approved demonstrated to us the need to improve them. We did not want any potential beneficiary to be deprived of even a single euro. We worked with great determination to rectify the situation. This is the purpose of the resolution we will vote on tomorrow, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries. The proposal we have tabled has been improved by the contributions of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. A consensus was reached rapidly, and I think we should all congratulate ourselves on this. I believe the Commission should accept in full the proposals we will vote on tomorrow. These will amend Regulation (EC) No 2561/2001 and ensure better social cover. This is what we want and what the Commission wants, and I believe it should be achieved. . Madam President, I would ask you not to count what I am going to say first as speaking time because I would like, on behalf of all my colleagues, to make a slight protest at this situation. I know that it is not your fault, Madam President, but this is an irritating situation because the debate was initially scheduled for the morning, then it was changed to the early afternoon and now it has been left for the night, and this often happens to us with fisheries. I would ask that this never happen again because clearly it entirely breaks up the debate. I am going to speak until 5 p.m., and I hope that you will at least allow the rapporteur time to speak properly, because I do not believe the Commissioner will have time to answer me. He will have to do so at 9 p.m. In any event, the members of the Committee on Fisheries believe that this is not good and we hope that it will not happen to us again in the future. Thank you very much. My political group asked for this report because it believes that the Committee on Fisheries should focus all its attention on the study and analysis of certain fisheries, analysing their situation, their functions, their problems and their future. This could be done with various fisheries, but we have decided to begin with tuna fisheries for the simple reason that it is the most globalised species on the planet, both in its extraction and in its processing and marketing. This means that it involves great interests and complex problems at international level. In the case of tuna there is a very clear inter-relationship between fleet and industry, and the role of the European Union is essential since our market is the world's top market for this species, and our fleet is also the biggest in the world, and tuna represents 60% of total production of canned fish, the European Union currently being – with a production of some 400 000 tonnes of canned tuna – the world’s top producer. This generates a very significant number of jobs – which furthermore is highly localised – in peripheral maritime regions highly dependent on fisheries. For specific data I would refer you to my report. Our intention is to provide a technical and political consideration of the whole of the sector, both extractive and processing, to analyse its position within the European Union and the world in order to draw conclusions which we can deliver to the Commission and the Council in order to increase awareness and sensitivity towards this important industry and finally to propose a series of specific measures to improve its defence. We have begun by defining the species the report is directed at, focusing essentially on tropical tuna, which constitute 90% of what is processed by the canning industry. We call for the defence of sustainable and responsible fishing, as the very basis for its future. We defend fishing which is respectful of other species, such as dolphins. We therefore support the  labelling of the AIDCP, the intergovernmental body which includes the European Union amongst its members; we call for transparency and clarity for consumers; we condemn illegal fishing – IUU – the flags of convenience which shelter it and we support the regional fisheries organisations and the Commission's role in them, we propose the creation of other new ones and we also request the maintenance and extension of the network of international tuna fishing agreements, given the highly migratory nature of these species and the guarantee that these international fisheries agreements represent for responsible fishing in the face of private agreements. I believe that the consensus reached in the Committee on Fisheries, in which the rapporteur accepted amendments from all political groups and proposed specific compromises, which have been incorporated, as in the case of the support for the amendments from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, demonstrate our genuine interest in supporting fisheries which must be sustainable both ecologically and economically and socially. I thank all the Members for their cooperation. To greatly summarise the contents of the report, we are calling for assistance for the Community fleet to prevent it from losing competitiveness in the globalised tuna world and we advocate a specific register for this fleet which will not receive aid from a structural point of view following the reform of the fisheries policy. It should be given incentives to retain the Community flags in the face of the temptation to take flags of convenience; that a census be created, authorised by the respective RFOs, and that illegal fishing and landings by these fleets be effectively controlled in order to put an end to unfair competition. To this end, we are calling for a specific unit within the Fisheries DG on highly migratory species with adequate resources and personnel to defend European interests in these fora at all times. We also call on the Commission to create a specific Advisory Committee on tropical tuna. With regard to our important canning industry, we are calling for a stable legal framework which allows it to better plan its activity and safeguard its investments. And we call for the same requirements for the Community industry as for the industries which export its product to our markets in order that we may compete under equal conditions within a very liberalised Community market which is continuing to open up with concessions to third countries, in particular in South East Asia. To this end we also call for the creation of a network of European reference laboratories in order to control the quality of products and technical and sanitary conditions, to which the European Union’s strict rules on the origin of goods must be applied. In view of the globalisation of the tuna market, we are facing very complex issues which require constant and priority attention, as happens in relation to the supply of raw material to the Community industry, and we therefore call for a new study of the real supply needs which allow the Community administration to take the appropriate decisions at all times. Our report, Commissioner, attempts to help the Commission to act correctly. We are therefore asking for specific things, such as: a specific action plan, a global framework for structural support, a defence plan to deal with third States and, to this end, the creation of units and advisory committees as I just said in my speech. This is therefore our opinion, it is the European Parliament's opinion, and we hope that the European Commission is now sensitive to it and will act accordingly. We in the European Parliament have begun our work and from now on we are going to demand compliance with our requests. Mr President, my question is a specific one: as has been said, it is clear that it was the Council that decided that this agency should be created in Spain, that this decision was approved and that the democratically-elected Spanish Prime Minister, Mr Aznar, accepted that it had to be located in the city of Vigo. I believe that the Commission has also accepted this, since the Commissioner has been there himself. I therefore believe there is no doubt about this. What naturally worries the sector now is when this agency will begin to operate. I believe that Parliament will have to give its opinion on the Commission’s proposal and that, once the new Parliament is constituted in July – and this is what I want to ask the Commissioner – I believe that in September – as he has said – it may be in the operational stage. If in the Autumn – September or October – Parliament gives its opinion and it is in favour, does that mean that in 2005 the agency could be operational or that all the procedures for putting it into operation could be finished, if all the procedures can be carried out on the basis of the new membership of Parliament? . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before assessing the reports, please allow me, as a European and as a Galician, to convey to you my great concern over the worst marine disaster that Europe has ever known. The largest reserve of fish and shellfish in Europe – and possibly even the world – is being ruined by an accident which we all had a duty to prevent. The scale of the tragedy we are facing is as yet unknown. The entire Galician coast, one thousand kilometres, is closed to fishing and shellfish-gathering. Scenery of unique beauty, national parks, the Natura 2000 network, the entire marine ecosystem and our great wealth of biodiversity have all been ruined. We are facing a European problem, which requires a European solution. A Member State, and in particular a region, in this case, a disadvantaged, peripheral, objective 1 region that lives principally from the sea and associated industries – involving 54 of the 62 economic sectors contained in Community input-output tables – over 10% of the gross domestic product, such as tourism, etc., are significantly affected. We feel impotent in the face of this situation, and we are asking Europe and the Member States for help. Help us, help the Galicians. Last summer, when we saw the powerful State of Germany literally flooded by its overflowing rivers, we all joined forces to create a European Solidarity Fund. Here today, in the European Parliament, we are asking for this Fund to be mobilised as a matter of urgency in order to help Galicia. This is no time for legal pedantry; we must mobilise the Fund. I would like to reiterate the statements made recently by the Galician Government: the European Union cannot merely be a dream of unity, but must also be a genuine source of solidarity that supports each and every one of its citizens at times of misfortune in any country, whether in the North, the South, the East or the West. Europe will become a reality when it is sensitive to the problems faced by its citizens. Let us all start working together, side by side. We have created a European Maritime Safety Agency and we do not know where it should be located. Which European region is most vulnerable to maritime accidents? Which region has suffered the most accidents? Which region has the greatest natural fish and shellfish resources, that must be protected? Which region is most dependent on these resources? Which region could be the most aware and most motivated to welcome and work towards maritime safety? We in Europe must leave behind politics with a small ‘p’ and pointless discussions. Europe owes Galicia a debt. Galicia is the answer to these questions and Galicia must be the proposed location. We are unashamedly promoting our shipbuilding industry and constructing double-hulled oil tankers that will ply the seas more safely, following the example of the United States. We are creating maritime corridors for dangerous goods, as France and Spain have already proposed. What we should do urgently and immediately is help those who have lost their livelihood and restore the environment. We should therefore make aid from all the Structural Funds more flexible and mobilise the Solidarity Fund. In the short term, however, we also need measures such as those that I have just mentioned. I shall end, ladies and gentlemen, with the slogan that thousands of Galicians adopted at a mass demonstration last Sunday: ‘’ [‘Never again’]. Mr Fischler, we will talk about this matter on Monday 9 in the Committee on Fisheries, since, as spokesman for the PPE-DE Group, I have asked for it to be included in the agenda. For now, I would ask and invite you to visit Galicia in order to see the situation for yourself, as well as how we have been affected by the disaster, in terms of both fishing and shellfish-gathering. Let us now talk about fisheries reform. What we need to scrap, Commissioner, are not fishing boats, but old oil tankers. The  has caused more damage to fishing than the entire European fishing fleet put together. Let us stop being hypocritical. When will we assess the damage caused to fishing by other activities? Why can a boat 12 metres long receive funding, while a boat of 13 metres cannot? Do you not know that the most serious problem is fishing in breeding areas? Both large and small boats can do that, and small boats may even be more likely to do so. CFP reform would not require the use of funds; it would, however, affect access, but the FIFG was not specific, and certainly not across the board as the Commission claims. As your colleague, Mr Barnier, said – and this is written in black and white – you lack the legal and moral basis to reform the Structural Funds now. Why can the agriculture policy receive subsidies that represent 50% of the EU budget – and can receive them until the year 2013 – and, on the other hand, the subsidies that were supposed to be granted until 2006 for the CFP, which does not even receive 1%, must be withdrawn now? Are you forgetting the agricultural surplus? And yet, we have a deficit of fisheries products. The fisheries sector is not asking for more money, but only the amounts that were promised, under the promised conditions. This is what we are asking for, with increased monitoring, as stated in the reports I am presenting to Parliament, with greater transparency, being fair to the Member States that fulfil the fleet reduction objectives and not treating them the same as those States that fail to meet their objectives. In 2004 or 2005, we will have to reform the Structural Funds. We shall see then whether all aid must be stopped. We must analyse the matter. If it stops, it will have to be stopped for all, but for now we want the plans laid down to be fulfilled, and we want the European Union to have a renewed, modern, safe fishing fleet in 2006. It is not a case of more fishing, but of better fishing, monitoring resource conservation by means of total allowable catches – which were designed for that purpose, as well as quotas and technical measures – selective fishing, biological recovery periods, the fishing effort, regulating days at sea, and also, with scrapping, but as an additional measure, not the only one, because it is the only measure that is irreversible. With every boat we scrap, we are destroying jobs, and this must be taken into account. We must make the conservation of fish compatible with the conservation of fishermen, and at difficult times, such as Galicia is going through at the moment, and may go through in future, we must not increase the fishing effort, particularly not in Community waters; it is possible to cooperate with the development of third States while maintaining our employment and supplying our markets. That is the promotion of ship exports and the creation of joint enterprises. Unless this happens, we will be encouraging fishermen, at difficult times, to sign on with illegal fishing boats sailing under flags of convenience, which we must prevent. I have therefore accepted my fellow Members’ amendments, which enrich my reports, in order to provide increased monitoring and greater transparency in fleet policy. I myself have tabled two amendments along the same lines, to make it clear that we are not trying to increase fishing capacity in any way, and which are also aimed at achieving coherence with development cooperation policy. I would now just like, therefore, to thank all the Members who have worked on this matter and tabled amendments, for their cooperation. I would now like to say, not only as rapporteur for these reports, but as I said at the beginning, as a European from Galicia, to all those who do not fully agree with these reports, that I have tried to draft them as honestly as possible and with as much dedication as I could, which was a great deal, and ask them not to vote against these reports. I would be grateful if you would at least think about it and consider abstaining. Lastly, I would like to thank and congratulate my colleague, Mr Jové Peres, on his excellent work in what were – as our chairman Mr Stevenson has acknowledged – difficult conditions, racing against the clock, with a certain amount of pressure and a great number of misunderstandings. Lastly, I would like to express my solidarity, naturally, with Mr Stevenson, over his oral question. Thank you all very much. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we should firstly acknowledge how appropriate it was for the Committee on Fisheries to produce an own-initiative report on this subject. I believe that the European Parliament is thereby heading in the right direction in terms of unravelling an issue which is complicated but crucial to the future of fishing in the world and to fisheries resources. Secondly, I believe it was also appropriate that it should be produced by Mrs McKenna, with whom I disagree on so many fisheries issues, but not on this report, which has been unanimously approved by our committee, despite the difficulty of this issue, and furthermore with no amendments from the House. I therefore congratulate the Committee on Fisheries and our rapporteur. There is still no doubt much to do, but, in this report, the European Parliament supports the condemnation and prosecution of flags of convenience in fishing and in marketing. Certain Member States of the Union – such as my own, Spain, as the rapporteur has mentioned here and in the report – are promoting innovative legislative proposals in this field, which is no easy task, as has been said before. We in the Committee on Fisheries are going to closely monitor the objectives and proposals in this report, aimed at dealing with the serious problem of illegal fishing. By fighting it, and eventually eradicating it, we will have taken an enormous step towards sustainable worldwide fishing. Some regional fisheries organisations, such as the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), say that 50% of catches of species such as the swordfish originate from illegal fishing under flags of convenience. If this percentage of illegal fishing were to be controlled, it would lead to an unquestionable improvement in the fish stock and would therefore clearly benefit legal fishermen, who have so much need for these catches and who behave in a totally controlled, and therefore responsible, manner. The marketing of these fish and landings in European Union ports – as has been said here – are key issues in this process, as is the definition of flags of convenience and clearly identifying the countries which permit them and tolerate them. All of these issues are in the report. I would once again like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs McKenna, and simply point out that I believe the European Parliament has today taken a very important step towards responsible fishing in the world. Having congratulated everybody, it only remains for me to ask the Commissioner – whose presence I appreciate – for the Commission’s support for the proposals in this report, because it is a very positive step, and that he take account, of course, of the fact that it has the unanimous approval of the Committee on Fisheries, and I hope that the vote for Mrs McKenna’s report will also be unanimous this afternoon. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as coordinator of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and on behalf of my group, I would like to express our full support for the oral question and the resolution presented by Mr Stevenson on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, in which, as he has just said, it has been approved practically unanimously. Fishing is an economic activity. Sometimes we worry more about fish than about fishermen and we have to deal with both. It is true that it is an economic activity that involves a natural resource which must be protected. But this protection should be carried out through reasonable long-term measures, with expert scientific support – one of the European Union’s outstanding tasks – and with the support of the sector in question. And when these measures are taken in this way, the sector itself will accept them better. Furthermore, we must lay down accompanying socio-economic measures in order to alleviate their possible consequences. The motion for a resolution being presented today to the plenum in the name of the Committee on Fisheries has been entirely accepted and moves in the direction which we have discussed in the Committee on Fisheries not only for cod and for these white species, but for all species in general. Today we are talking about cod and all the white species, but tomorrow we may talk about others and I believe that the solidarity with the people affected is laudable – in this case with the Nordic fishermen and essentially with the countries mentioned here, as well as Scotland, and all the Members have worked together on this. I have been pleased by the words of the Commissioner in support of these measures proposed in the committee and I would like, Mr President, on a personal basis and as a Galician, to say that, just as this House showed solidarity with Galicia in the case of the failure to reach an agreement with Morocco or following the  accident, it is now the turn of the Nordic countries and the Scots and we will stand together and show mutual solidarity. Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we European citizens are concerned about maritime safety and we Galicians in particular, since we directly suffered the extremely serious accidents we are all so aware of. The consequences of these accidents oblige us to speed up the adoption of maritime safety measures of all types and to seek consensus between the various political groups and between the institutions – Commission, Parliament and Council. We must therefore prevent long legislative procedures in order to respond to the citizens’ demands, reaching agreements at first reading preventing the need to go to the conciliation procedure. I congratulate the Commission on the proposal it has presented to us, and our rapporteur on her report, which has achieved unanimity, which is significant, as is the support we are giving to the amendments introduced in relation to the extension to other types of ship, such as those transporting particularly dangerous goods, to those preventive measures of all types, and to global agreements within the world framework of the IMO, as well as with the United States. This debate is therefore timely but, I would insist, we must remember that, if we agree on the fundamental issue, as we do in general terms, we must also agree on the form and the procedures, and act with the greatest diligence, as has been reiterated here. We must not waste a single second on political discussions which extend the legislative procedures on such sensitive issues. The IMO measures within the framework of the SOLAS Agreement are therefore welcome, as will the MARPOL measures be, which not only enhance the safety of ships and ports but which also provide for the imposition of criminal sanctions, which we will have to wait to be debated and approved in this House. The European Parliament must be on the front line in this fight and I hope that the recently created temporary committee will continue with this consensus and provide the best possible resources and instruments in this fight and lead it on behalf of the European Union at world level. – Mr President, I requested the floor for an oral amendment to this Amendment No 1. We agree with Amendment No 1 from the UEN Group, but ask, if the House is in agreement, for the following words to be added: 'European Parliament Resolution on the  oil tanker disaster off the coast of Galicia'. I believe this would be more precise and it appears in this form in the agenda for this sitting. I would like to add the text 'off the coast of Galicia'. – Mr President, I would like to join in congratulating our rapporteur, Mr Gallagher, on the sensitivity and speed with which he has produced his report. I would also like to take advantage of the presence of the Commissioner to congratulate the Commission on the fact that, in the interim, we have been able to extend this agreement until the end of the year, which has allowed European fleets to continue fishing. I would like to take this opportunity to say to Mr Fischler that I am naturally concerned about the repercussions of this agreement for the fleets which, after the failure of the negotiations with Morocco, are in a truly delicate situation. All of this has its place within the framework of the debate we have held today on development cooperation and respect for the resources of third countries, certainly, but also in the knowledge that there are fishing opportunities which have not yet been utilised. The agreement that has been reached with Mauritania – on which we must also congratulate the Commission, and on which our rapporteur, Mr Gallagher is also working hard – has broken the curse that was stopping us from signing agreements and, therefore, the agreement with Senegal must come to fruition. I know that the Commission is working seriously and has meetings arranged for 20 and 23 November. I urge it to work as quickly as possible and I also urge this Parliament to deal with it with the urgency it deserves, because it is of great importance in terms of the situation of the European fishing fleet. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner and congratulate her on having appeared so quickly before this House to give us this important information today. Although she gave a general reply earlier in relation to Spain, I would like, if you will permit me, to ask about a specific aspect which has a lot to do with peripheral regions, or rather the most peripheral of the peripheral regions – the Galician Finisterre. I would like to ask you whether these new guidelines approved by the Commission, in relation to Spain and the high speed railway, include connections with the Autonomous Community of Galicia and, if so, whether you can explain how. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, aquaculture is daily achieving greater recognition within the wider context of the fisheries sector at global and Community level. Aquaculture is a key adjunct to the extractive fisheries sector. It is, however, abundantly clear that aquaculture is beset by a range of problems. The latter relate for instance to its size, marketing, the environment and health. It is essential to identify all these problems and tackle them at Community level. It was therefore particularly appropriate for our Committee on Fisheries to prepare an own-initiative report on such an important and sensitive issue. The appointment of Mr Martin as rapporteur was particularly appropriate too. He has brought dedication and rigour to his hard work, managing to produce a report that obtained broad support within our committee. I am confident it will receive the same support in plenary. The report provides a comprehensive overview of the difficulties facing the broad and diverse European aquaculture sector. I would like to congratulate Mr Martin publicly on this achievement. This report should prove a godsend to the European Union and most certainly to Parliament. It marks a watershed in the effort to deal with the many and complex issues impacting on aquaculture, and will prove a splendid work of reference to draw upon. Thanks to this report and the earlier hearing with the sector, much light has been thrown on the specific problems. Both the present situation and future prospects are clearly detailed in the document. We are called upon to do our utmost to ensure that nightmares like the andthe disasters are consigned to oblivion, and that henceforth the protection of the environment and of marine ecosystems has priority. The interests of sensitive European maritime and fishing areas must come first. That is where fish and shellfish are produced, the ecosystem is preserved and thousands of families earn their living. Many other jobs complement traditional fishing practices. They are closely connected to the latter and dependent on them. I therefore urge you to follow the course outlined in Mr Martin’s report so as to ensure that European aquaculture itself remains on the right course. . –  Mr President, thank you very much for your understanding. I wish to thank Mr Fischler for his statement on the fisheries agreement with Morocco, and I also wish to thank him for all the effort he is putting into these difficult negotiations. We all knew they would be difficult and lengthy. I should like to remind you here, as he too has said, but I want to stress this, that it is the first time that a President of the European Commission has been personally involved in negotiating a fisheries agreement. It must be clear both to the citizens of the European Union and to Morocco that all the institutions in the European Union – and at the highest level – want this agreement: the European Council wants it, and it said so at Nice; the President of the Commission, who has been to Rabat, wants it; and the European Parliament in Strasbourg wants it. So, for the time being, the one that does not want it, and I say for the time being, is Morocco, at least on the terms that the European Union is demanding. Let us hope that together we can soon manage to persuade them of the mutual benefits of this agreement and thus be able to associate President Prodi with this success. I just ask, Mr Fischler, that the negotiations be resumed as soon as possible – immediately if they can be – to make the most of the boost that the President of the European Commission himself has given them. As has also been said here, I do not want Morocco to draw our attention away from the extremely important debate that we have here today. We have been summoned to debate four major reports to do with the common fisheries policy and its future. I am going to focus, naturally, on mine, the one for which I am the rapporteur, but first I should like to congratulate Mr Poignant and Mr Gallagher and also Mr Cunha on the magnificent job they have done. I want to point out in relation to the report for which I am the rapporteur that I think it is the first one that a Community institution has drawn up on globalisation in fisheries, and therefore I think our Committee has hit the nail on the head with the two own-initiative reports it has decided to produce; the other one is still in progress. In mine, in this report, what I want to stress is this: first of all, Commissioner, the fishing industry in the European Union must start to shake off this almost domestic or almost marginal image that it currently has, perhaps because of the fact that it is confined to peripheral regions or because of the coldness of the Community GDP contribution figures that are always being mentioned. We have to recognise the global importance that fishing now has. We are becoming more and more dependent on imported fish; we have our own fleet on all the seas and we have enough technical knowledge of our own not to leave this strategic sector in the hands of third countries. The 2002 reform, therefore, must not serve just for us to carry on staring at our own navel in the form of our own Community waters, our own problems and our own misfortunes. What we really need is a fleet of the right size that is competitive at European and world levels. More competitive does not mean more predatory but simply more efficient at using the resources actually available, and doing this better than everyone else. The fishing sector is now strategic – and will be more so in the future – as a food reserve: healthy and safe animal proteins for a growing human population. We must involve fisheries – and this is also shown by the fisheries agreement with Morocco – in the European Union’s foreign policy and commercial policy. Our Union’s foreign fisheries policy has to earn credibility and an image, which it does not yet have, standing before world public opinion as it really is: the policy of a fishing power as compliant as any other with the United Nations principles, that is, the development of the international law of the sea, the conservation of resources for all, cooperation for development, etc. Let us therefore make it an active policy, both in fisheries agreements with third countries, adapted to each individual situation, and in the regional fishery organisations, in which we must play a leading role, as we have often said, and let us not resign ourselves to a situation in which the 15 states that today make up the European Union – tomorrow perhaps 20 or 25 – must forever have as much weight as, for instance, Estonia has now. The Council of Ministers of the European Union or the United Nations Security Council are examples to bear in mind of voting systems weighted by the specific weight of territories and populations, and we should bear this important example in mind. My report states that the European Union has not yet woken up to the importance of its fishery concerns at an international level. Admittedly, as I said earlier, its relative importance to the Community GDP is small, but we must not forget that ours is the fourth largest fleet in the world. If we total up the processing and marketing industry, subsidiary industries, investment in other countries and specialised shipbuilding, EU fisheries-linked economic activity is the most substantial in the world. Other powers, like the United States and Japan, are aware of this and are investing in this sector. In the World Trade Organisation we must not be afraid to stand up for our interests, and for our structural aid system too, since not all of it relates directly to fishing: some is aid for conserving and controlling resources, making vessels safer, improving fishery infrastructures and the selective arts of fishing. In the WTO we must demand the real liberalisation of port services, the freedom to invest and establish in third countries with full legal guarantees and freedom of access to ports. Let us denounce attempts to extend exclusive economic zones and lead the effective fight against flags of convenience. All this, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, is the real challenge facing the common fisheries policy from economic globalisation. The European Parliament is today offering this report to which I refer as food for thought for everyone on the eve of an historic reform of the common fisheries policy, so that we can all be clear about where we are and where we have to get to. – Mr President, as a point of order I would like to request the floor before the vote on the two amendments, because I would like to propose an oral amendment to each of them. I would also like to table a point of order, before moving on to the vote, which will be a joint one concerning the whole text, because there are some linguistic corrections which I would like to point out to the services, since we have worked very quickly and some errors have slipped in which I will now mention, Mr President. We negotiators agreed that, by means of oral amendments and corrections, we could adapt the text if the circumstances had changed. Recital A mentions 'recent hours', and much has happened since the hull was ruptured; it should say 'recent days', because some days have passed rather than hours. In Recital B, where it talks about oil, it should say ‘fuel’, because we have agreed that ‘fuel’ should always be included. In the Spanish version of Recital F the text 'especially birds' appears and we had agreed that the word 'especially' would not appear. I therefore request that the word 'especially' be removed. The Spanish version of Recital G says 'sea craftsmen such as oyster farmers and seafood breeders'. I would ask that the Spanish version be corrected by saying 'sea workers such as mussel farmers, oyster farmers and other shellfishermen'. In point 3, the Italian version does not match the other versions; it is the only one in which, in line 7, seven words have been included which must be removed since they do not appear in any of the other versions. And finally, in point 11, it says 'maritime and/or fishing areas ' and, in Spanish, it should say 'maritime-fishing areas '. That is all, Mr President. . –  Mr President, I wish to raise another point of order, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with regard to what has been said here. We have already voted on the basis. We have voted on the question of whether one of the principles contained in paragraph 6 was admissible or not. A large majority have rejected referral back to committee, on the understanding that this point was admissible. We cannot take another vote, with all this manoeuvring, on the same question, when they are now saying that they are applying Rule 143, since the same cause for inadmissibility is being cited. I would like to point out to you that Rule 143 speaks of inadmissibility for formal reasons, such as its not being on the agenda, a lack of linguistic versions, etc., but for not reasons of basis, especially if it has already been discussed and voted on. We cannot deal once again with another procedural motion, using another Rule, when this House has already voted on the basis of the question and has already said that it should not be referred back to committee. Therefore, there should be no more parliamentary manoeuvring and filibustering and I believe that the question should be cleared up, and it has been cleared up, by a majority in this House. . – Mr President, you told me that Amendment No 4 was inadmissible and then it has been voted on because an agreement had been reached. In the case of Amendment No 17, our agreement is even greater since it is within the legislative text: it relates to Article 4. The Commission is trying to realise its proposal, which is to withdraw an article, and we have voted to include that article. This article should be voted on. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by lamenting the fact that the Commissioner for Fisheries, Mr Fischler, cannot be here today. I have been talking to him in person this week in connection with a fisheries event taking place simultaneously in Brussels, which we have already criticised in our Committee on Fisheries: a seminar on control over fisheries is being held, to which MEPs were invited during a week in which we also have a plenary sitting in Strasbourg, the timetable for which was known a year in advance. This is therefore doubly serious. I have made this known to Mr Fischler and I am now repeating it publicly here. Faced with this situation and the imminence of negotiations which might begin next Monday in Brussels, I do not think the Commission will give us much information today, due to the fact that it will do this – we hope – on Monday 30 October. The logic of not unveiling here – as the Commissioner himself said to me – the strategy that is to be revealed at the said negotiations, is justified and worthy of respect. So, as chair of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to use our oral question and this debate to talk to both sides – since our motion for a resolution is addressed to both sides – about a few issues, and I would like to do so very calmly. First, I would like to emphasise the great concern of the Committee on Fisheries over the huge delay in negotiations – almost a year from the end of the previous agreement – which is the reason behind our oral question, which was formulated in September. Secondly, I would like to emphasise the agreement reached within our committee – and I would remind you here of our powers regarding an assent which is necessary for a fisheries agreement with Morocco – an agreement to convey the unequivocal message contained in our committee’s motion for a resolution which all the political groups have negotiated and presented together and upon which we are voting today. On the subject of the said motion for a resolution, I would like to highlight our firm support for the European Commission to continue negotiating with Morocco, and our call for Morocco to negotiate and find the best, most beneficial solution for both parties, as this is possible and must be found. As stated in our proposal, it is impossible that within the context of close relations of every kind (political, economic, commercial, financial, cultural, etc.) between two parties who have signed an association agreement for there to be no room for the fisheries cooperation that the European Union is asking for. There is plenty of room for cooperation in the field of fisheries, and with willingness on both sides, it can, and must, be achieved. There need only be one yardstick for the conservation of fish stocks. The European Union applies to its common fisheries policy the fundamental principle of responsible fishing and the conservation of resources, which are essential conditions for everyone, for the Moroccans, for the Europeans and for the non-Europeans who fish in Morocco. On the other hand, having said this, we also maintain that not just any agreement will suffice. It must be an agreement which provides an impetus for fisheries cooperation and the Moroccan fishing industry, but which also fully satisfies the fisheries interests of the European fleets. It would be a pity for so much effort not to lead to a solution that we all want so much, or for our relations with the sovereign people of Morocco to be obstructed or clouded at a time when the new young monarchy is initiating a stage of progress that inspires hope and when relations with the European Union must play a decisive role in supporting such hope. I repeat, it would be a pity to dash so much hope for the future and so many possibilities for mutual understanding. We also tell the Commission in section 8 what we expect from it should it be unable to reach a satisfactory agreement. From this rostrum and with the weight of representing European democracy on our shoulders, I call for good sense and wisdom from both parties, who will meet in Brussels on 30 October at the highest level – the European Fisheries Commissioner and the Moroccan Minister for Fisheries if, as I hope, his attendance in Brussels is confirmed, and the technical delegations, with the Moroccan Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of Morocco, if this too is confirmed, with the Director-General for Fisheries of the European Union as chair – so that serious dialogue may take place and solutions be found. I will end, Mr President, by saying that there are many ways of reaching this agreement and there is still time, although unfortunately not much. This is what the people of the European Union, whom we represent here, are demanding. .Amendment No 1 having been rejected by the plenary (the Varela Amendment, adopted in the Committee on Fisheries), Article 1 of the Commission’s proposal is fully retained, which includes hake and also a precautionary biomass target of 165 000 tonnes. Taking into account that this target was questioned by the most recent scientific recommendations, reducing it to 145 000 tonnes, and that the Commission itself said in meetings of the Northern hake workshop that a target of 120 000 tonnes could be acceptable, we cannot vote in favour of a Proposal that includes hake and that sets the target at 165 000 tonnes. There is also a contradiction in the Stihler report, as in her explanatory statement the rapporteur herself recognises this quantity of 165 000 tonnes as being “too high" (Biomass Targets) and in her conclusions she says that "a relaxation in the targets for hake […] should be allowed". The plenary has also adopted amendments that improve the Commission’s proposal, which we have supported, so neither can we reject those improvements which, although they are inadequate, do, however, prevent us from voting against the report, which is why we have abstained in the final vote on it. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kindermann’s report is a good one, and we are dealing with a complex and very important subject. Furthermore it is a politically very timely report within the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy which is taking place and at a time when there seemed to be proposals which questioned or removed this aid for the renewal or modernisation of the fleet. I would therefore like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Kindermann, on this work and I would like to ask Commissioner Fischler, please, to take good note of what the European Parliament says today and I hope he will approve the Kindermann report. Mr Fischler, it is wise to put things right. Therefore, I ask you to take note of this, if Parliament takes this approach. From Mr Kindermann’s report, as approved in the Committee on Fisheries – improved, I believe, by the amendments we have presented – I would like to highlight the following: firstly, the fleet policy is crucial and has a great impact on fisheries, but also on the regions dependent on fishing and, ultimately, on the economic and social cohesion of Europe. This is a very important aspect which is highlighted in the report. Fleet policy is an important political instrument, but it is not the only one. There are others to be considered, such as technical measures, the TACs, fishing bans, fishing days, etc. Increasing the capacity of the fleet does not mean fishing more, but fishing better, with more security, with greater habitability and with greater hygiene and health guarantees in terms of the treatment of fish on board. We therefore still need the FIFG aid for the renewal and modernisation of our fleet, which is a crucial aspect if we are still to have fishermen and a competitive fleet. We therefore ask the Commission to adopt measures to increase the capacity and tonnage of renewed vessels. We therefore also ask, within the framework of the reform of the fisheries policy, for the introduction of uniform criteria and objectives to measure the capacity and the segmentation of the fleets of the Member States, as well as the creation of a system for the inclusion and exclusion of vessels in the registers in order to guarantee that capacity does not increase. In summary, we are dealing with a clear and concise report which I hope will reflect the approach of the Committee on Fisheries and this Parliament as a whole to the reform of the common fisheries policy which is getting closer, by opting – in accordance with our wishes – for the maintenance of a renewed, and therefore competitive, fisheries sector and not, Mr Fischler, for its dismantling. – Madam President, unfortunately, I, once again, have to request the floor to inform you and the House of another tragedy at sea. Last week, the fishing vessel , flying a German flag and with a Spanish and Portuguese crew, sank in the North Atlantic, off the coast of Scotland. Six of the 16 crew lost their lives. European fishermen have, once again, paid their tribute to the sea. Madam President, I would like you and the rest of the House to be aware that the Committee on Fisheries approved a report on this issue last week which, I hope, will be presented to Parliament during the next part-session. This is our contribution to this cruel profession, which is increasingly beset by greater insecurity. Madam President, I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, to contact the families of the victims in order to express this Parliament’s condolences and solidarity, and I would like to point out that they all come from Galicia. I would also like you, Madam President, if you can, to contact the British sea rescue services, whose members, risking their own lives, saved many others. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I am disappointed by this debate as it seems like a hotchpotch of national interests and I am hearing very little about Europe, but rather a defence of the conservation of resources which responds entirely to each of the parties’ own interests. I believe that the Commission must play a significant role in defending European interests. Everyone is looking after number one, and that is not what we want to see. I would like to congratulate the three rapporteurs, or rather the four, I would like to congratulate Mr Ó Neachtain, because he produced the report – Mr Stevenson’s name now only appears as chairman, despite the fact that the amendments presented to the plenary come from the UEN Group, although they have also been signed by Members with national interests. I will say nothing about the report by Mr Fava since we are all going to accept it and I believe there is little controversy about it. With regard to the reports by Mr Hudghton and Mr Stevenson, I would like to say that I support what has emerged from the Committee on Fisheries, which is our specialised and competent committee. What subsequently emerges from the politics in the plenary is another issue. We support Mr Hudghton’s report. I would simply like to say that on the issue of the regional consultative committees, I agree with him, that they are consultative. We must listen to the regions, we must listen to the sectors. We have said this in Parliament and it has been said in the Council, but of course Parliament and the Council will then have the final word, because consultations are obligatory, but there is a common policy and common European bodies which must take these decisions after listening to the sectors in all regions. With regard to the Stevenson report, there are two fundamental principles: firstly, the conservation of resources; secondly, equality of Member States. They are two principles which the Commission must accept. We have scrupulous respect for the conservation measures. We want a genuine sustainable fisheries policy, responsible fishing, with all the necessary measures, including fishing bans. If there are areas in which there are reproductions, of juvenile and restocking fish, there must not be any fishing, nobody fishes. And that is the way to create healthy biological bans. This must be made absolutely clear. These sensitive areas must therefore be sensitive. But this must be balanced with a second principle, which is the need for the Community principle of not discriminating against any State for reasons of nationality and therefore all these conservation measures must be taken in a manner that affects everyone, not benefiting some and harming others; that would be an anti-Community measure and would end up in the courts, the Court of Justice in this case. I hope that this is not necessary so that the Member States, which have actually come to the end of their transitional period of 17 years – the longest transitional period in the history of the European Union – whose rights have been restricted for these 17 years, can now accede under equal conditions. The conservation measures must therefore affect everybody. There are measures, as the Commissioner knows, which consist of limiting the ACRs, fishing days, the capacity of fleets, all of which are selective technical measures. There are many measures, but they must clearly be applied equally to everybody. It is discriminatory, Commissioner, because the period intended to be used as a reference is 1998-2002, years during which there were two countries – Spain and Portugal – whose rights were restricted or limited. They are therefore not operating under equal conditions if we take that period as a reference. We are naturally against the amendments which will be presented tomorrow by the UEN Group and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, because we believe there are other ways to conserve resources without discriminating against certain States. Finally, Commissioner, I would like you to clarify whether we are discussing the first proposal you made or the proposal which is already in the Council and on which there is an agreement, as certain Members have said. If that is the case, I would ask that this Parliament be consulted again and if it is not, we will use all the rights this House enjoys to see that it is. In any event, the political decisions adopted in this House will have to be respected, but I would insist that what has been debated here today has been a hotchpotch of national interests, unfortunately for fishing, and that is not something which I, as an MEP, wanted to see. And the Commission is not playing the leading role it should playing in terms of a conservation of resources in the sensitive areas of Europe which affects every one of the Member States in an equal manner. I want to thank Commissioner Fischler for his answer to the oral question tabled by our committee. He has given us some important information. The Commissioners who appear before this House armed with specific and important information are always to be thanked. With regard to the specific case of the , measures are being taken and action is being coordinated with the French authorities. Our main concern has been that we do not end up discussing this type of event again. Preventative measures are the answer to the question of what can we do. It has been said that the Commission will meet to adopt a range of technical and legal measures. This is the right way to go. These measures are very welcome and the Committee on Fisheries will monitor these very closely so that we do not have to spend more time in this House regretting such disasters. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, before I begin my speech, I should like to highlight the unanimity in this House over the previous report so that the Commission reflects upon the reasons underlying the amendments we have tabled. I hope that such unanimity leads them to reconsider their position on these two amendments that you said you would not adopt. In any event, regarding the report we are currently debating, I should like to point out that the specific aim of these technical measures is to protect juveniles of marine organisms in order to reduce the threat to future yields. As a result, alongside the Commission, we are aiming and endeavouring to protect fishery resources. As you know, such measures include rules on the size of fishing gear, – and of meshes in particular – minimum allowable landing sizes, specific closed areas, protection of endangered species and so on. The governing Regulation No 850/98 entered into force on 1 January of this year, but it must obviously continue to be periodically adapted to incorporate any new data and scientific innovations which may emerge. In the case we are currently dealing with, we are discussing the fifth amendment which will enable the Commission to include various new measures that, in our opinion, are fully justified. We are talking about nets for shrimp fishing, closed areas for fishing for sand eels and a review of the minimum size for certain bivalve molluscs and crustacea.  The Commission’s proposed revisions and additions to Annex XII appear to be reasonable. However, in the newly added case of deepwater rose shrimp, the carapace length of 24 millimetres seems excessive and could cause problems for fishermen. As a result, your rapporteur has introduced an amendment, which has already been adopted by the Committee on Fisheries, suggesting a compromise of setting this restriction at 22 millimetres. This compromise, of course, has already been agreed with the Member States as being more appropriate. We also feel that reducing the size of carpetshells from 40 to 38 millimetres, which has been widely called for by the sector, is a very positive step. Therefore, it is now a question of adapting certain measures that will have a positive impact on economic and social spheres whilst strictly respecting scientific reports. To sum up, it is essential that this regulation is kept up to date and that it is based on the best available scientific recommendations. This will not be the last amendment made given that there will be a continuing need to adapt to specific conditions and to scientific reports that emerge in the future. For this reason, with this amendment – which I think should be taken into consideration – we accept the overall proposal from the Commission and I hope that the Commission will in turn accept our amendment. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since it is so late, I will try to be very brief and concise. Firstly, I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Miguélez, for the good work she has done despite the urgency of the issue. I would also like to congratulate all the members of the Committee on Fisheries for the work they have done. I believe that together we have all been able to meet the demands of the circumstances: the rapporteur, the authors of the amendments, those who have made it possible to reach compromises and the Members who have supported us. I thank them all for their understanding and solidarity. The urgency procedure, as I said, always obliges us to work more quickly than we would have liked, but, even so, the result has been very positive. I now hope the Commission takes account of the significant improvements which the Committee on Fisheries has introduced into its proposal. I will highlight the extension of aid, better coverage and, above all, the flexibility introduced into the application of the various measures under discussion. Secondly, we must speak about the funding of this plan, although this is not strictly an issue for our committee. In Nice, the Council made a political commitment at the highest level, at the level of Heads of State and Government, to the people affected by the dramatic situation created following the failure of the negotiations with Morocco. I believe that the European Commission has also been able to meet the demands of the circumstances, and I would like to acknowledge that here: the use of the flexibility instrument and the EUR 197 million it proposes for funding demonstrate this. I therefore congratulate them. I now ask Parliament’s Committee on Budgets and the Council to support the European Commission and the European Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries and reach the necessary compromise so that this essential EUR 197 million can be used for the proposed purpose. There is a political commitment and a favourable opinion from this Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries and we strongly urge that they be complied with. Mr President, Mr Fischler, my report concerns the vital integration of environmental and fisheries issues, as discussed at the ministerial meeting in Bergen. This integration has always been a priority for me as we would be doing the fisheries and fishermen of the future a disservice if we did not emphasise the need for conservation of resources and responsible fisheries in general. To fail in this respect would mean food for today but hunger for tomorrow, not just for our fishermen and the people of Europe but, more seriously, for humanity as a whole. The common fisheries policy is theoretically very demanding and very strict in this respect, perhaps more so than most people, both Europeans and non-Europeans, would believe. I have therefore asked the European Commission to produce a publication which lists all the measures of the common fisheries policy aimed at conserving and protecting resources. This will serve to publicise our protectionist actions. We have also asked Parliament’s own DG IV to prepare a systematic study of these measures for the Committee on Fisheries. The revision of the common fisheries policy in 2002 is the biggest time-limited challenge facing us. We must completely overhaul, modernise or, if you prefer, update this policy in its entirety. I would stress that the whole of the CFP must be revised, particularly the part on the protection of fish stocks. This is the basis of my request to the European Commission and the services of this House. I do not believe that the state of stocks and the current scandalous system of discards are a good example of the policy’s effectiveness which must therefore, in my opinion, be significantly improved. I do not want to and cannot go into too much detail, Mr President, given the time constraints and also the interpreters’ fees. However, I will just remind you that the meeting in Bergen showed very significantly that a proper policy on the sea must be created. The President-in-Office informed our committee that the current Portuguese presidency intended the CFP to be regarded as a policy for ensuring the sustainability of our resources. This must be our objective in Europe and throughout the world. In this respect, important Community initiatives arose from Bergen which have always been supported by our committee. These are aimed at re-establishing the breeding biomass, reducing and adapting fishing effort to resources, protecting juveniles, species and their habitats and adopting technical measures aimed at selective and responsible fisheries. These initiatives, together with effective systems of control, are the key aspects for the future of fisheries. However, we do not have to resort to extreme solutions, as Mr Katiforis initially suggested in his draft report. I am referring to this now because I will not have time to speak later on. I must point out in this respect that it was the numerous amendments tabled and approved in our committee and the flexibility shown by Mr Katiforis which enabled his report to be approved by our committee. Coincidence or fate has worked to bring together in this part-session both my report and Mr Katiforis’s report on fisheries and the environment. The oral question from our committee on the extremely serious consequences for fisheries of the accident involving the tanker  will also be considered tomorrow. Maritime transport, industrial and urban pollution and waste also have negative effects on fisheries whose problems do not just come from overfishing. – Madam President, I am beginning my speech in this debate on fisheries very moved, as you know, by the events that have taken place in Galicia. I remember that, while I was chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, the tragic accident involving the took place, and our committee put an oral question and adopted a resolution. At that point we were all united, and I hope we are in this case as well. I would like to stress – and you know this – that Galicia is the region most dependent on fishing in the whole of Europe and is extraordinarily rich in seafood and fish, which, following the  accident, is going to take many years to recover, above all in the areas most directly affected by the oil slick. I am going to prepare a motion for a resolution and I believe that the political groups must be united, so that this House can issue a political opinion, so that events of this type never happen again. I believe that we have a very important political responsibility. It is terrible to see fishing resources covered in petrol, dead sea birds and the fishermen who live exclusively from the sea. Sometimes over-fishing is discussed but these issues are not. I believe it is very important to bear it in mind and I hope, as I have said, that all our colleagues will show solidarity. With regard to the reports before the plenary, there has been no mention of the Busk report, and I would like to congratulate him, because there is no need for either a debate or for amendments since we have all agreed on the issue of illegal fishing and also the fight against it; it is therefore important to point it out. I believe that the report by Mr Souchet has worked out well. It is a reasonable and positive report, and there are no amendments to it in this House either. With regard to the report by Mr Stevenson, everybody knows what happened and I am not going to go into details; today we are dealing with the report which carries the name of the chairman of our committee. I would simply say to you that my political group has presented certain minimal amendments; we have tried to clear up certain issues. I would like to say, and I say this in general, that we are dealing with a communication. In other words, we are not dealing with a legislative document, but the report by Mr Jové will be, and we will examine that report during the next part-session. I hope that we can focus all our efforts and use the balanced approach indicated here, in order to adopt the commitments in this report, which will have to be debated, as I have said, at the next part-session in Brussels. With regard to the amendments we have presented, we have tried to remove the word ‘permanent’ from the twelve miles, because the Legal Services of the Council and the European Parliament, as well as the Commission, accept that, since it is a derogation from the Treaty, it cannot be permanent, because that would amount to a modification of the Treaty itself. Therefore, it is simply a measure that requires a time limit. Since we are not in agreement on whether it is five, ten, fifteen or twenty years, we have simply asked that we may adopt an agreement on this during the debate on the Jové report. Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for the information you have given us, and sincere congratulations on your excellent work during this legislature. We agree with your description of it as the legislature of safety at sea, and you have played the leading role in this. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vermeer, I am glad that you are here with us today, although we regret that Mr Sterckx cannot be with us to defend his report. On behalf of my group, please pass on our congratulations to him for the commendable and honest work he has been doing in order to be able to present to this House today the most objective and comprehensive report possible with the greatest possible consensus, on a sensitive and difficult matter. I would also like to congratulate Mr Jarzembowski on his excellent work as Chair. It is in this spirit of objectivity and consensus that I also wished to tackle this issue on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, both in committee and in plenary. My group, therefore, did not table many amendments, but those amendments were key as we believe that they affect significant points and, although we disagree on some approaches and would like others to be better thought through, I will only highlight those that I consider to be essential. First of all, our two amendments aim to correct statements in the report regarding fisheries in Galicia that are inaccurate and made rashly, without any basis, and could do a great deal of damage in the future. My obligation here is, without a doubt, to help increase safety at sea, but also to defend the truth and the fishing and shellfishing interests of Galicia, and to ensure that there is not a shadow of a doubt regarding the situation and quality of world famous products, which were managed and preserved before, during and after the in an exemplary manner. The fishing areas were closed during the accident and were opened as soon as the excellent Galician biologists, health professionals and technical staff advised that they should be, having carried out the strict tests required by Community standards. No one foresees that this will mean any future risk or undermine their profitability, as is being demonstrated by the market and by the research being conducted by the prestigious Spanish Oceanography Institute, with experiments being carried out on their own scientific vessels. Galicia’s fisheries management system is a model for many others in the world and we cannot allow a document from a Community institution – which is not specifically on fisheries but on safety at sea – to question it with no basis and to accuse us of overusing our resources or overfishing. We do not, therefore, understand how other Galician MEPs from other political groups have been able to support this absolute nonsense with their vote in committee, which I hope they will now correct in plenary. I also hope that they will support our second amendment, which clarifies the current paragraph 51, as the reduction in extractive activity due to the closure of fishing grounds for preventive reasons is not linked to the ultimate decrease in resources, as can be verified on the website of the Fisheries and Maritime Affairs Board of the Regional Government of Galicia, , which gives all the updated fisheries statistics for the whole of 2003 by species, and shows that some species that have decreased are fished in international waters and not along the coast of Galicia, which makes it difficult for them to be affected by the accident. This is the rigour and accuracy that we want to see throughout the Sterckx report, defending the real situation of fisheries in order to support it, which you are aware that we want to do. Finally, paragraph 39 is also incorrect. The decision of various Member States of the European Union to ban ‘substandard’, or in other words ‘garbage’ vessels from their exclusive economic zones, may be controversial but has of course been the most effective one since the Until international law is revised, as we ask in our amendment, now paragraph 40 (which is something that is going to take a long time) to amend, among other things, the so-called ‘inoffensive passage’ for these ‘floating bombs’, citizens want us to provide effective measures and there are few measures more effective than those taken by the French and Spanish Governments, supported by Portugal, Italy, Germany and the Council of Ministers of the European Union. These measures do not make it difficult to assist the ‘garbage’ vessel or its crew as they are escorted by naval ships, which provides them with the best possible means of assistance. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission finally accepted the proposal we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats made to the effect that hake and cod should be dealt with separately and in different proposals, since their situations are not just slightly different, but very different. We are glad about this and we are also happy with the report, on which we congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Stihler, despite the fact that originally she opposed our amendments to differentiate between the two species. Time has proved us to be right. Recovery plans are very delicate and serious issues, which must be approached with recourse to the greatest possible scientific knowledge and with the greatest possible support from the sector involved as well, given their significant socio-economic impact. Without the participation of scientists and fishermen, either directly or by means of the regional advisory councils, as proposed in the report, it is not possible to make a real, credible and transparent proposal, which is not only valid for cod, but for any other species or sector involved, as in the case of hake, whose sector we expect to hear soon in our committee. We support the consultation and we would also like to call on the European Commission to adapt the current Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999 laying down the detailed rules and arrangements regarding Community structural funds in the fisheries sector, so that the recovery plans are always accompanied by socio-economic measures cofinanced by the European Union in order to alleviate the negative consequences of the adoption of these recovery plans for the sector involved. This is the minimum we can ask for in order that the fishermen affected accept and comply with the plans laid down – whether they take place in Community or non-Community waters – whenever they affect European fleets, as in the recent case of the proposed recovery plan for halibut in NAFO waters. For all these cases, we must now provide for a general compensatory mechanism within the framework of the regulation I have mentioned, and we therefore call on Commissioner Fischler, for whose presence we are grateful, to make a proposal to Parliament in this regard. . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fischler, we know that you have done everything you can. Others left you a veritable time bomb preventing you from reaching another agreement: the promise and the agreement in the previous one not to renew it. We all knew that it was difficult for you. Even so, after seventeen months, thirteen technical meetings, your personal involvement on seven occasions and that of the President of the Commission himself on one occasion, which is unprecedented, Morocco was persuaded to sit down and negotiate. It was little more than that, however. Morocco never wanted the agreement and showed it by imposing its intransigence and its unfair and unacceptable conditions, which the sector itself rejected as uneconomical and impossible to take on. We always said that we would prefer no agreement to a bad agreement; and this is what Morocco is proposing, despite the generous, reasonable offers from the European Union, which are beneficial to both parties. Morocco is within its rights but, having got to this point, should we carry on? I think that if Morocco wants an agreement with the European Union, it knows perfectly well what it has to offer. However, if it has not been reached in seventeen months, I think it unlikely that it will be reached now. Therefore, Mr Fischler, you should take note of this and inform the College of Commissioners of Morocco’s intransigence in co-operating with the European Union. We will be watching the development of bilateral relations between the European Union and Morocco very carefully, both in political terms, as you mentioned, and in economic, financial and trade terms. Why is Morocco rejecting more than EUR 200 million in three years, investment from European ship owners, the possible creation of joint ventures to develop its sector, the wealth that the catches could generate in its ports? Why is it rejecting a gradual reduction of the European fleet over three years, while in private it authorises private Asian companies to use its fishing grounds? This is quite legitimate, but can the European Union not guarantee better than anyone that its resources will be rationally preserved and fished responsibly? Who in Morocco is really going to benefit from the lack of an agreement? These are the key points. I stress, Mr Fischler, that you should take careful note of all this but, following this upset with Morocco, I think that we must look to the future. The situation is of course difficult, serious, and unprecedented. It is not impossible to solve, however. I therefore ask everyone for generosity and solidarity, employers and fishermen, unions and political parties. And we need to ask the European Union to make a special effort. The Nice European Council, incidentally at the request of the Spanish Government and José María Aznar, agreed – another unprecedented thing – to support the demands and, if they failed, the negotiations and, if these did not succeed either, asked the Commission for a specific action programme, as set out in No 59 of the Nice conclusions. I ask you, Mr Fischler, for your commitment and understanding. Fishing in the European Union asks for it now more than ever. I ask for your personal political commitment to get involved in the pending fishing negotiations with third countries, Senegal and Mauritania first of all, and to open up new negotiations and explore new fishing grounds. This is the future for redeploying the fleet, which is the priority aim; and at the same time, with the funds not used for Morocco, I ask you to support a broad social programme for fishermen and for the most affected areas, with alternative economic projects to restart their economies. Your experience with the CAP should be useful to us so that, for the first time, programmes of this type can be adopted in fisheries. I will conclude by saying that Morocco dealt a hard blow to the European fisheries sector and therefore to the European Union. Now, however, we have to adopt a realistic, constructive and responsible attitude. It has the support of Parliament, which will actively defend the sector. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the vast ecological, economic and social disaster that Galicia is currently suffering, which has become a genuine European problem, I believe we must be clear in this debate we are holding. Prevention first, cure second, it was said here. The former, prevention, means we must not be distracted from the real culprits in this tragedy. We are dealing with a floating dump, with dangerous goods, with an opaque network of the interests of soulless businessmen that we should untangle and condemn. Must we investigate all these aspects? Yes. Should we prevent them? Again yes. I hope and believe that this time the European Union has learnt its lesson. The European Commission has learnt its lesson. The European Commission is clear about the matter, and I believe that now the European Parliament and the Council must be intransigent in the face of the laxness and casual attitude of this maritime traffic. Secondly, cure. We must focus on repairing the damage that has been caused. Galicia cannot pay the physical price, in addition to the damage it is suffering. The real victim is the entire people of Galicia. Our responsibility now is to work together to achieve the maximum structural funds and the application of the Solidarity Fund; we are going to achieve it. An inquiry? Of course. I would like to say here – it has already been said, but I would like to repeat it – that the Galician Parliament has set up, today and with the agreement of all the political parties, a committee of inquiry. It is applying the principle of subsidiarity so that the closest politicians investigate the matter and therefore we, together with the Liberal Group and the UEN Group, have tabled an amendment for a comprehensive technical inquiry to be undertaken into this complex aspect. We are going to ask for more European means to achieve better coordination and civil protection; however, Mr President, seeking to use the tragedy for electoral gain, as some politicians are doing, is simply repulsive. I believe this division is damaging to the politicians themselves as well to the victims, who are confused and stunned both from the effects of the disaster and from seeing politicians attacking each other with their partisan egotism. I shall end, Mr President, by thanking, as a Galician European, all of Parliament and the institutions present here today, for the solidarity they are showing us and which I know they will continue to show us over the coming days. . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again holding – and once again at night – an important debate on the common fisheries policy, specifically on its external aspects, on what we could call the external fisheries policy, by which I mean the European Union’s participation in Regional Fisheries Organisations, which from now on I shall refer to as RFOs for short, and the renewal of a fisheries agreement with a third country, in this case Equatorial Guinea. I would firstly like to congratulate my fellow rapporteurs this evening, Mr Piétrasanta and Mr Gallagher, on the wonderful work they have done. To focus on the first of these aspects, the role of the European Union in the RFOs, in this case we are dealing with RFOs that regulate the populations of highly migratory species, that is, tuna and related species, such as swordfish. These are fish resources of the highest commercial value to which we must apply the utmost effort since they are of enormous economic importance, both to the Union and to third countries. I would also like to draw your attention to the Community decision-making procedure in this field. In committee we have introduced an amendment to the regulation on control measures, so that the Commission may present us with an annual report on the control and monitoring measures carried out within the scope of the RFOs in which the European Union participates. This report must include the provisions which are adopted by the management committee of the fisheries sector in implementation of the provisions of that regulation. The European Parliament is given very little information and, what is even more serious, there is a sense that these consultations with the European Parliament are useless, since we are consulted after the event, when the measures have already been adopted, thereby making a mockery of the role of the European Union’s principal democratic institution. We must change this system, Commissioner. We are already trying to do this  through the ICCAT meetings, a system which we must extend to all the other RFOs in which the European Union participates, and we hope there will be an increasing number of them. Our Committee on Fisheries wishes to have prior knowledge of the proposals the Commission is going to make in these fora. We want the Commission to discuss them with us and then put them forward, thereby fully involving the European Parliament in meetings which it is going to continue to participate in – or at least I hope so – as an observer, as it has been doing recently thanks to the code of conduct established between our institutions. I am not going to dwell on the enormous role which the RFOs are expected to play, on which our committee has already produced several reports. Please allow me to remind you, in this context, that we are producing an own-initiative report which is closely related to the RFOs: I am referring to the control of illegal fishing in international waters, to the report on ships flying flags of convenience, which is unfortunately also a frequent problem in the fishing grounds for highly migratory fish. The European Parliament wishes to participate, together with the FAO, in the definition of new notions, which are more precise and more developed, of undeclared and unregulated illegal fishing, of declarations of catches, of inspections at sea and in ports, of prohibitions of landings etc. for this irresponsible form of fishing. Commissioner, we have therefore also asked to attend the initial control and inspection meetings of the RFOs, and also those on criteria for allocating quotas, since they must be linked to those organisations, so that in the future one of the main criteria for allocation may be the real capacity for compliance with the control and inspection measures which these RFOsimplement. It seems neither advisable nor reasonable that a State should increase its catch quotas if it does not have the means necessary for controlling them. In summary, we are happy with the Commission’s efforts to regroup the broad and diverse regulations referring to highly migratory fish, although these efforts present us with decisions that have already been adopted and which are binding at an international level because no objections have been raised against them. The Commission is, furthermore, only making these efforts in order to achieve greater legal certainty. However, we would like the European Parliament to participate more actively in the proposals which the Commission must put forward in these fora, communicating them to the Committee on Fisheries beforehand. Secondly, not only as rapporteur for these reports, but also, above all, in my capacity as current Chairman of this Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries, I must repeat here once again, Commissioner, our committee’s request, ratified by Parliament, for the administrative structure of the Directorate-General for Fisheries to include within its organisation a specific unit to deal with the management of the populations of these highly migratory species. The many RFOs in existence for these species, and those that may still be created in the future, as well as the importance of the European fleet which fishes for highly migratory fish, plus their high commercial value, which we mentioned earlier, are crying out for greater material and human resources from the Directorate-General for Fisheries and for the creation of a specific unit within it. Commissioner, if you attended a meeting, either a preparatory working meeting or an annual meeting of one of these RFOs, and saw the resources deployed by other delegations and the resources available to the Community delegation, you would immediately give the order to create such a unit. In this context and within the reform of the staff organisation of the Directorate-General for Fisheries currently taking place, Parliament therefore repeats its desire that this request be considered. I would finally like to refer to the amendments approved by the Committee on Fisheries in relation to the management expenses arising from the European Union’s membership of these RFOs for highly migratory fish. Our Committee on Fisheries has considered, and it has been taking this line previously, that if the European Union is to have exclusive competence in the field of the common fisheries policy, the international financial commitments acquired by the Commission, in exercising that exclusive competence, must in turn also be met exclusively by the Commission, by means of the Community budget, and not be passed on to the Member States. To have competence must mean having the financial capacity necessary to confront it. And a policy described as common – as is the case with the fisheries policy – must fully apply the principle of sufficiency of resources which governs it. These are the considerations, Commissioner, which I have wished to raise in relation to these two reports for which I have had the honour to be rapporteur. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I want to warmly thank Mr Fischler for being here today. Our President told us yesterday that the Commissioner would be unable to attend today due to prior commitments. He must have reconsidered and, in so doing, has, as usual, shown great respect for this House. I thank him for this. On behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, I must highlight our concerns about the shipwreck of the tanker . There are two political reasons why our committee and myself as its chairman must speak out about this issue. Firstly, we must show the Commission, the Council and the Member States that this House cannot and will not forget about this serious incident. Secondly, we must focus today on one specific aspect of this terrible environmental disaster, namely its effect on the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected regions. The epilogue to this disaster must surely be the urgent adoption of measures to minimise the damage and to prevent this happening again in the future. Enough regrets and thoughts have been expressed about this event. We must now get down to adopting measures, Commissioner. Firstly, efficient controls are needed in Community waters and ports in order to ensure safety in maritime transport, particularly where oil and dangerous goods are involved. The construction of these vessels, the use of double hulls, their age, their control by classification companies, insurance, the creation of databases containing all relevant information, Community cooperation and coordination, the reinforcement of control by inspectors and the liability of carriers and owners of cargoes are all issues which must be tackled. Who better than the European Commission to make serious proposals for European harmonisation in these areas? Flags of convenience must also be specifically monitored and regulated in maritime transport, particularly as they do so much damage to the fisheries which we have taken to calling ‘responsible fisheries’. Access into Community waters of vessels flying flags of convenience which do not meet Community safety standards must be controlled. We expect concrete action from the European Commission. The fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected areas of Brittany and the Vendée are particularly important, well-developed and prestigious. The European Commission must therefore publicise the damage caused and its assessment of this damage. It must also indicate all the specific measures, including political, economic, social and financial measures, which it intends to adopt in order to minimise the damage and compensate the fishermen and industries which have been dramatically affected overnight. How can consumer confidence in products from this area be regained? How can those affected be compensated? This is a very serious problem which the European Union, as an economic, commercial, industrial and fishing power, must tackle. We must get to work and lead the way in these issues which are damaging our environment and destroying industries and occupations. We must adopt preventative measures which can stop disasters like this from happening in the future. This is the essence of my oral question on behalf of all the members of the Committee on Fisheries. We hope to hear specific proposals from the Commission, with plenty of action and no more regrets. This House will today approve a very important and appropriate joint motion for a resolution tabled by several groups. –  Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, as a native of Galicia I feel devastated. I am quite overcome by the spectacle unfolding before us. As a politician, I am keenly aware of the heavy responsibility we bear as Members of this House. We are charged with defending the interests of our constituents and we must succeed in so doing. Vague statements and half-truths simply will not do any longer. As the Commissioner said, this has to be the last tragedy at sea. I should indeed like to begin by commending Commissioner de Palacio on her work. To all intents and purposes, before she was appointed there was no such thing as a European policy on maritime safety. We now have a substantial package of measures on the table, namely Erika I and Erika II. The question as to whether these measures are adequate and whether they are being applied correctly has already been raised in the House. Clearly, the answer is no. The European Parliament must unite and throw its political weight behind the European Commission. It has to send out a clear signal. We need to work together to speed up implementation of these measures. They must come into force. The Commissioner referred to double hulls. The latter are compulsory in the United States, and had that been the case here, this accident probably would not have happened. The Commissioner also mentioned inspections at ports within the European Community, which is where we should start, and at all other ports in Europe and across the world. All ports should actually be monitored, be they colonies, tax havens or ports of convenience as some have been described. The Maritime Safety Agency has to start operating as soon as possible. Sadly, as a native of Galicia I am all too aware of the unfortunate record held by that part of Spain. Eight such accidents have taken place there over the last thirty years. Six of these accidents happened in the last twenty years. In Galicia the Atlantic coast of the Cape Finisterre area is known as the Coast of Death. The European Agency should be located in an area affected by maritime accidents. It should be in one that has experienced their consequences. Perhaps others could offer more than my region. Locating the Agency in Galicia could however go some way towards compensating the area. I know this falls outside the competence of both Parliament and the Commission, but I feel moved to express my thoughts aloud. In any case, the resolution calls for the establishment of special maritime fishing areas. Undoubtedly, Galicia does fall into that category because of its rich shellfish and fishing resources mentioned earlier, and also because of its diversity and marine ecosystem. We are eager to move what could be termed the lanes of death further away from where they now are. We want to prevent our sea from becoming a sewer. We want to prevent vessels that are no better than rusting hulks from sailing on it. The sea is Galicia’s life. Galicia’s economy is based on it and I could go so far as to say that its distinctive culture is too. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, that sea is now poisoned. These measures must be strictly implemented as from tomorrow. We must insist that Member States do so. Mr President, I really feel the time has come for European solidarity to make itself felt. I would recall that we have ourselves shown solidarity to other Member States in the past. We now call on them to respond in kind. Any assistance offered to Galicia will be welcome. I would like to refer in particular to the Solidarity Fund. I studied Article 2 and it certainly does apply in this instance, especially if the reports approved by the House are borne in mind. It should also be taken into account that Galicia is an Objective 1 region whose fish and shellfish resources represent more than 10% of its gross domestic product. Given that these are in danger of being totally wiped out for an unspecified period, Galicia does indeed meet the conditions for benefiting from the Solidarity Fund. In conclusion, I should like to assure the Commissioner that she can count on support from the Group of the European People’s Party. Indeed I am sure the whole House will support her in her efforts. We need to be able to start doing what is required as of tomorrow. Then we shall never again have to regret accidents of this kind. Thank you in advance, ladies and gentlemen, for the support I am confident you will offer us. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, what we have just heard is absolutely a minority opinion in this House, and I think we are all delighted about that. I would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, Mr Gallagher, on the diligence and efficiency with which he has done his work. He well understood that this was an urgent report, given the situation of the fleet affected by the non-renewal of the fisheries agreement with Morocco. A part of that fleet can now be included in the agreement with Mauritania, which will help to relieve the difficult situation which had been created. The European Parliament is thereby giving its opinion on the Gallagher report on this agreement, which is essential to the European Union, in record time. I also think it is fair to congratulate the Commission on having reached this agreement, which breaks the curse of the failure of the negotiations with Morocco. Secondly, I would like to point out – because there has been false and ill-intentioned information on this agreement – that the agreement with Mauritania is very beneficial for both parties. I insist; for both parties, and that is why it has been reached. Furthermore, I would like to acknowledge that there is no better defender in the world of cooperation development or of the conservation of resources than the European Union. Therefore, neither private agreements nor public agreements with States other than the European Union, above all Asian States, can in any way be compared with the control and rigour applied by the European Union in these international agreements. I would also like to take this opportunity, Commissioner, to condemn the recent seizure of a ship, the Lameiro Uno, which, while sailing towards Mauritanian waters, was seized by Morocco, accused of fishing, when this was not the case. Commissioner, I hope that this intolerable practice by Morocco will not be repeated in the future, since it would jeopardise the achievements of the fisheries agreement with Mauritania. I would ask you to take good note of this, in order to prevent any repetition of these practices, since vessels obviously have to pass through Morocco’s economic zone in order to reach Mauritania. Mr President, Mrs Attwooll’s reports are extremely important as indeed is the prospect of having as much data as possible on the fisheries sectors of the Member States. This is particularly true given that the Commission must soon prepare a report on the revision of the common fisheries policy in the year 2002. However, the fact that the updating and sending of data are purely optional and that this involves a very wide range of data and sectors may distort the final objective of the Commission’s proposal. This has happened, as previously mentioned, with the MAGPs. These have seriously prejudiced the countries which have strictly complied with them and provided the corresponding data to the Commission, compared with other countries which have failed to comply or simply not provided the data. It should be pointed out that not all the Member States have the same amount of data. Some have different sectors and, in view of the volume of data to be sent, could be prejudiced compared with those which have a smaller volume of data, if the same deadlines are set. These deadlines for submission must therefore be staggered accordingly. Much of this data is confidential, as has also been mentioned, which could affect the competitiveness of the sectors involved and their enterprises. We must therefore act very carefully in this area and guarantee the confidentiality of this data. Some of the data is also irrelevant such as that referring to the taxation of enterprises. Finally, Mr President, as I must be brief given the time constraints, I must congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Attwooll, on the important work which she has carried out within our committee. – Mr President, I would like to present an oral amendment, because the amendment by the UEN Group includes Portugal. We are not against this, but Spain and France do not appear, but rather Galicia and Brittany, and we believe – and we have discussed this with the Portuguese Members – that it should say: 'Galicia, Brittany and Northern Portugal'. – Madam President, with regard to the question of fishing which was mentioned previously by Mr Barón Crespo, you said that there had been a technical error. In my capacity as President of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to ask you, since this a very important and serious question, to explain this technical error and tell me what it consists of. And also, I would ask you to inform the political groups who have signed this motion for a resolution so that they may know exactly what has occurred: whether it was a technical error on the part of those who presented it or whether it was a technical error on the part of those who allowed it. And I would also like, Madam President, to tell you that the motion for a resolution will be debated this afternoon and I understand that, in accordance with Rule 37(3), the vote should take place following the debate, that is, this afternoon and not tomorrow, as you have said. Could you please clarify this point? . – Mr President, I regret very much that the Commission did not take all this into account before and did not inform us in sufficient time so that we could work on it in committee. However, the international measures mentioned will remain in force because this is an international agreement. They will not, therefore, be affected by the delay. Moreover, as I said before, I hope that we will be able to vote on this proposal during the January part-session. In any case, it is regrettable that they are asking us for an urgent procedure now, at the last minute, because we have had all of 2000 to process this proposal for a regulation. I think that the institutions, in this case the Commission, should work more responsibly to ensure that proposals reach this House in due time so that a rapporteur can be appointed, the Commission proposal can be examined, amendments can be tabled, they can be debated in committee and they can then come to the plenary, which they have asked us to do in a single plenary sitting, which is impossible. – Madam President, I asked for clarification; I have absolutely no intention of arguing about the appropriateness of a Commission statement. It clearly is appropriate. I want to make it clear that we support it, and I believe that it was also supported in the Conference of Presidents of political groups, but today I have a meeting with the Committee on Fisheries, an extraordinary meeting, and this issue will logically be dealt with. As Chairman of that committee, I wanted to have all the information so that I could communicate it to the other committee members. The statement is therefore welcome. In no way do we oppose it. Far from it. Our group has also supported it. So that the debate may be held in an ordered fashion, which is what most concerns me, because this issue could distort the four important fisheries debates which we have on the agenda, it would be normal for this statement to be made after that debate, and that would then give us time to continue discussing this issue, although it seems that that will not be possible. The competent services had informed me that the order of interventions would be as follows: firstly the four rapporteurs of the reports, and then the Commissioner would be given the floor to make the aforementioned statement. In that case, the rapporteurs would not be able to reply to the Commissioner during the joint debate. What I therefore ask is that the Commission statement be made first and that then the speakers should take the floor, so that everybody might have the same right as MEPs to hear, and be able to reply to, the statement by the Commissioner. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gallagher’s report on the fourth amendment of the Regulation on technical measures was not amended in our committee. It was actually approved unanimously for which I congratulate the rapporteur. This also shows that our committee is in total agreement when it comes to supporting measures which aim to protect species, such as tuna in this case. These decisions must be defended by the Commission in ICCAT. This is why our committee asked to be consulted in advance and to be represented at the meetings as an observer in order to ensure greater and better control and to reinforce the European Parliament’s role. Mr Fischler, I am delighted that the Commission responded favourably to our request in the last and constructive debate which we had on this issue and has asked to attend our next meeting this month to inform us about the future preparatory ICCAT meeting. Our rapporteur’s criticisms on this point have also therefore been heeded. I must highlight the part of the report which states that, in 1975, with regard to the size of bluefin tuna, a minimum limit of 6.4 kg with a 15% tolerance in the number of fish was recommended for the entire Atlantic. However, according to the SCRS study, the regulation establishing the 6.4 kg minimum has been poorly enforced in the East Atlantic and Mediterranean fisheries. The WWF reports that, according to Italian, French and Spanish customs authorities, illegal bluefin fishing and landings of small fish are on the increase. I cannot and do not want to go any further as we are pushed for time. However, I must again congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Gallagher. . – Mr President, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Fisheries has decided not to accept this request for urgent procedure, as we were not aware of the Commission proposal until 20 November, when we no longer had time to include it on our agenda. It was therefore not possible for us to deal with it with the urgency that was asked of us. However, we will do everything we can to ensure that we will be able to debate it here in the next part-session of the new year. . – Mr President, I know you are in a hurry because we must follow our timetable, but we are reforming the common fisheries policy and we have been waiting 20 years for this reform. Although you are an able President, who presides very well and with great skill, I would ask you for some restraint so that the Members may know what we are voting for. I would be truly grateful. Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to have to begin my speech on this occasion without being able to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. The Miguélez Ramos report, in the form it is being presented to plenary today, is worse than the Commission’s proposal. This is why we voted against it in committee, as did the rapporteur herself. I sincerely believe that the Commission’s proposal was good and sufficient, and I believe that it should have been accepted by a majority in the Committee on Fisheries, in which case it would not have been necessary to present amendments to Article 3, since, for the first time, the Commission was responding to a long battle by the PPE-DE Group in this European Parliament and by the Spanish Government for the same criteria to be applied to the Fisheries Agreement with Greenland as to the ‘southern agreements’ and for there not to be fishing opportunities paid for but not used, thereby allowing the Commission directly to re-allocate these unused fishing opportunities to other Member States which request it. Mr Vitorino, I would ask you to communicate to Commissioner Fischler that he should go ahead with his proposal, because it is reasonable, fair, equitable and in accordance with the principles of good governance, which the Court of Auditors called for so strongly, favouring the mutual interests of Greenland and the European Union, and, above all, it is a Europeanist proposal, since it protects the common European interest, unlike the current Miguélez Ramos report, which is anti-Community, since it prevents the Commission from directly defending the common interest of all the Member States in re-allocating unused quotas and obliges it to give in to the desire of certain States which do not use those quotas to negotiate bilaterally. We therefore believe the report to be a step backwards and we will vote against it again if the new Amendment No 5 is not adopted, since it is better than the Amendment No 2 which appears in the current Miguélez Ramos report. Madam President, Commissioner, I firstly want to congratulate both rapporteurs of the Committee on Fisheries for their reports which are before us today. The Gallagher report concerns a technical amendment to the ever sensitive protection of juveniles which we always support in our committee. I must highlight the consideration and receptiveness of our rapporteur with regard to the request to the Commission for further information. The delay in this vote on his report was caused by the Commission not having dealt with his request for the most recent scientific reports to assess the coverage of the geographical area delimited in the Douglas Bank Box and the redefinition of the conditions and their scope. As Mrs Fraga Estévez had also asked for this information, I hope that this has allowed us to completely fulfil the role, reserved specifically for our Committee on Fisheries, of minutely scrutinising the activity of the European Commission and the application of the corresponding scientific reports by the Community institutions. With regard to the Fraga Estévez report, this concerns a fundamental issue and a pillar of the common fisheries policy, namely the common organisation of the markets. As this clearly covers all fishing activity, this is why this magnificent report has taken some time in its progress through this House and its final adoption in our committee on the twenty-second of last month. The final result is an excellent report. Many of its important sections were the subject of a consensus due to compromise amendments made by the rapporteur which substantially alter key aspects of the Commission’s proposal. The removal of Article 5, which was the Commission’s attempt to create new tariff suspensions on products as sensitive as tuna fillets, the request to create reference laboratories, the inclusion of aquaculture, the improvement of the regulation of consumer information on the labels of fishery products, the percentages of the compensatory allowances for tuna and the increased flexibility of withdrawals are, to mention just a few examples, very important improvements introduced in this report. I must therefore congratulate the rapporteur once again. We must also congratulate ourselves on the development and achievement of this report which lends prestige to the role of the Committee on Fisheries as well as this House. – Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteurs, Mr Ojeda and Mrs Miguélez, because they are both presenting us with fisheries agreements and our Committee on Fisheries has done its duties perfectly in these reports. I am going to refer essentially to the issue of Greenland, because I believe it to be important. We are seeing great unanimity here on the part of all Members and this seems to me to be very positive and very important. We are in a good frame of mind! Commissioner, I would like to congratulate you on your speech and the communication that has been made. Parliament and the Commission are in agreement, which is very important and, with a view to the new Protocol which is going to be signed from 1 January of next year, I believe there is agreement already between the Member States themselves. If you will allow me to say this, I believe the Commission has backed down, or if I may put it another way, the wise are ready to rectify. As far as I remember, we in this Parliament have been calling for greater equity, greater transparency and greater justice in this agreement compared to the agreements in the south since 1994 and now this is beginning to be acknowledged. I would also like to congratulate the new Director-General for Fisheries, Mr Holmquist, and the Director for Foreign Policy, because I know that they have made extraordinary efforts to make progress on the new line which Parliament is presenting at the moment and which – we all agree – is the line we must use for the agreement with Greenland. The previous one, as has been said several times, was a scandal, and this is how the Court of Auditors saw it, as did this Parliament, because there were paper fish, there was wastage of quotas, which were not used by the States who could do so, as happens with the agreements in the south, and also there was non-payment of licences by ship owners. Now this is being unified with the criteria of the agreements in the south and I believe that this is a truly positive step. There is agreement in the Commission, there is agreement in the Council, as I understand it, and there will also be agreement in this Parliament. Moreover, this is something we should all be pleased about for the sake of the interests of the European Union and all its Member States, naturally, and also in the interests of Greenland. We are moving in the direction of mutual interest, and that is what is needed. Experimental campaigns have been authorised since July, for new species, and there are possibilities for diversifying fisheries in Greenland, which is positive – I was in Greenland when I was chairman of the committee – and I know that there are other scientific possibilities and they must therefore be exploited. I would draw your attention to mixed undertakings – I believe this is very important – and to temporary associations of undertakings. The fishermen of Greenland themselves had asked me personally to help them achieve mixed undertakings, and therefore the issue is of interest to them, and I believe that by diversifying fishing opportunities in Greenland and by making it possible to use all the fisheries quotas, we will have done something very positive, as I have said, so that we can all be happy with the new Protocol which is going to be signed now from January and also in 2006. . – Mr President, I would like to tell you that yesterday I had contacts with the competent service and with members of the Office of the President and we had reached the conclusion that we were not agreed on whether they were admissible. – Mr President, I do not want this to be a dispute between a Galician and a Scotsman, nor between two Europeans. I am rapporteur for these reports, I am a professional lawyer and I am producing a legal and political report. I have been in contact with the services and they have told us that this amendment is admissible. Therefore, all I ask is that the vote be taken a little more slowly, please. Nothing more. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like – as others have done – to begin by acknowledging the work of our rapporteur, Mrs Miguélez Ramos, on an issue which was frankly difficult – as we all know – given the conflicting positions and interests in this field. However, I regret the final result, because I believe it is not as satisfactory as we should have hoped. I therefore voted against the report in committee, which delivered a result – as you will remember – of 12 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions, amongst them the rapporteur herself. Why do I consider the report to be unsatisfactory? Because I believe that, after more than 20 years of the so-called common fisheries policy – which is common only in name – and after 17 years of the transitional period of two Member States, Spain and Portugal, we should have made rather more progress in the communitisation of this policy and gone beyond what is proposed in the Miguélez Ramos report, which opts for the maintenance of the status quo. I shall refer to two key issues. In my view, these two issues are: firstly, the distribution of fishing opportunities in Community waters between the Member States, maintaining relative stability, which is not a principle but a discriminatory mechanism by any reckoning; secondly, the complete refusal to test, even experimentally, new management systems which are producing wonderful results in the world and in the great fishing powers – such as Norway and Iceland – by means of transferable fishing rights, which we are flatly refusing to even to test. I sincerely believe that with our internal market and our single currency it is unacceptable to exempt a whole economic sector, fisheries, from the advantages of the European Union, which are laid down in the Treaties, since it is an economic sector like any other and it is expected to play a strategic role in the future and many regions depend on it, many of them Objective 1 regions. I believe that we can and must reach a greater consensus without harming other fishing communities – which must all be understood and defended – in order to update the issue, or, at least, to open up new possibilities, however slowly and gradually. I believe that we will have to carry on talking a lot over the coming months in our committee in order to find genuinely European compromise formulae. – Mr President, Commissioner, I sincerely believe that the report carried out by our rapporteur, Mr Cunha, is a great report and it is very timely, as this morning has illustrated. I warmly congratulate him on it. I will speak clearly and briefly. We constantly refer to the existing problem of the relationship between the size of the fishing fleet and current fishing resources. We speak of excess fishing capacity, of the overfishing of resources by an over-sized fleet. The Commission implemented the Multiannual Guidance Programmes (MAGPs), intended to rebalance this relationship. However, it is also blatantly clear that the application of the MAGPs varies considerably from State to State. Some have complied completely and have reduced their fleet by 40%, others have not complied; others even refuse to provide the data on their compliance, and the most serious thing is that the non-compliant countries expect to be treated in the same way as those which have carried out the very difficult task of reducing their fishing capacity with the subsequent economic and social sacrifices. Mr Cunha’s report is therefore important and appropriate. It points out to the Commission the basic defects: less than rigorous plans, unequal control and, above all, a lack of homogeneity in the criteria applied by the different States in measuring their fleets. As if this were not enough, the report highlights the lack of effective penalties for those who do not comply, which, to top it all, means that certain mechanisms which could be useful in terms of achieving the objective for which they were created, are simply no use. It is therefore necessary to harmonise the criteria and penalise those who do not comply, by means of effective measures, such as that proposed, by way of example, in Mr Cunha’s report, involving the reduction or suspension – at least temporary, having accepted Mr Ford’s amendment – of the quotas for non-compliant countries. We hope that Parliament will adopt this report, as the Committee on Fisheries has accepted it, with the amendments which the rapporteur has referred to, and that the Commission and the Council will take good note, so that they may give new life to a key instrument for achieving the objectives of the current common fisheries policy, based on sustainable development in the sector, which is what we in the Committee on Fisheries are defending. . – It is not acceptable either legally, morally or politically that an amendment in the European Parliament or a report during a consultation procedure can extend the provisions of a Treaty on accession to the EU such as the one relating to Spain and Portugal, as is the case with Amendment No 20 from the UEN Group or Amendments Nos 21 to 30. Furthermore, I believe that Amendment No 20 is inadmissible within the meaning of Rule 140(1)a) and b) of the EP’s Rules of Procedure. It is unjust, discriminatory and I believe illegal. I have therefore had to vote against the report bearing the name of the Chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, Mr Stevenson, but in reality produced by Mr Ó Neachtain. If the Council does not remedy it, it will be the Court of Justice of the European Communities that has to declare the report approved today contrary to Community law, and it will thereby be making the final decision, in the event that the opinion issued today by the EP is followed. – Mr President, I would like to point out, in support of what you have said, firstly, that Mr Fischler had informed me that he was unwell and was therefore not able to be here with us today. I must say that Mr Fischler has always attended other debates. Since he is unwell, a case of , we must of course simply reiterate the President’s wishes for his speedy recovery. I think we must go ahead with this debate since we have already spent a lot of time preparing the reports scheduled for today, essentially the Miguélez report. These are very important issues and we have managed to have them debated during this January part-session, which was difficult since there were institutional aspects to be resolved. And furthermore, we are holding the debate on a Thursday, which is not usual for fisheries, and the reports will be voted on on a Thursday morning. Therefore, as chairman of the committee, I would request that we go ahead with the debate despite the fact that the Commissioner is not present and that we send him our best wishes for a speedy recovery. – Mr President, Commissioner, and the few honourable Members who are present, I am going to be very brief and I would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, Mrs Figueiredo, on her report. The uniform application of the CFP in all the Member States is an important challenge, undoubtedly, and we must therefore also congratulate the European Commission on its proposal. There can be no sound fisheries policy without real and effective control in which the fisheries sector itself also participates. New technologies allow for better and greater control, and they must be used to improve compliance with the common fisheries policy. This control must not relate exclusively to fishing itself, but it must also, and this is very important, be extended to the other phases of the process, in other words, to the chain of marketing, transport, sales and so forth, also including controls in catering establishments. We therefore all agree that more homogeneity, more rationality, more resources and more budget are required. I will dedicate the rest of the time available to me to a few brief comments on the report by Mrs McKenna since, although our group had requested a joint debate on these reports, this has not been the case. I congratulate the rapporteur and I am pleased that, both in the annual report by the Commission and in the report by Parliament, it is stressed that just four Member States have complied 100% with the requirements for the corresponding boxes in all segments of the fleet. These States are: Finland, Denmark, Spain and Portugal. In other words, there are 11 States which are not complying with them, and that is the most important thing in my view, together with the clear fact – and allow me to point this out as a Spanish person – that Spain is one of them. In this way I hope to counter, and I would like to make this clear, certain attempts to slander and discredit the Spanish fisheries sector. Spain, however, is one of only four States, I repeat, which comply with the fleet-reduction plans, and I believe it is necessary to stress this here, in the presence of other States and therefore of other representatives of other Member States which are non-compliant. – Mr President, this has been voted on and I have no problem with that, but I had asked for the floor. With regard to Amendments Nos 35, 36 and 37, you have said that they have been withdrawn, which is correct, but I have not understood what has happened about the admissibility of Amendments Nos 4 and 17. Are these amendments going to be voted on or not? . Mr President, fisheries are only the subject of discussion in Parliament once every twenty years. We are reforming fisheries policy and today Parliament has adopted two very important reports, and I would like to express my gratitude to all the Members who supported me in this task. I do so, Mr President, as a Galician in particular, because Galicia is currently experiencing a great tragedy. I shall end by saying that I would like Mr Fischler to be present at this historic moment and he is not here. I would, however, like the Commissioner to kindly pass on the following: his colleague, Mr Barnier, told him in writing that his reform had neither legal nor moral basis and today, Parliament has taken away the political and budgetary basis and rejected the report. *** –  Mr President, as a Galician and as fisheries coordinator of the majority group in this House, I welcome the decision we have taken for the Commission to attend on Thursday in order to explain to us in the finest detail – because we are going to require the finest details – how this extremely serious accident could have occurred. Mr President, Galicia is black: its beaches, its coastline, its fauna, its fish, its birds … and the people are facing a black future. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to declare your solidarity, on behalf of this House, with the Spanish and Galician authorities and to address them directly. On Thursday we shall call for aid and an enquiry from the Commission. I would also like to announce, given that this House, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, does not allow us to table resolutions, that through the Committee on Fisheries I shall propose a resolution to establish protected European sea-fishing zones in susceptible areas, which will increase the required distances to be maintained between these zones and ships carrying dangerous goods and bring forward the obligation for this type of ship to have a double hull, which is currently laid down for the year 2015, and I shall call for it to be brought forward to the year 2005. Mr President, I am telling you this as an Irishman and a Celt: we cannot allow another disaster of this kind to occur in Europe. We must increase control and prevent our environment from being destroyed. –  Mr President, Mr Fischler, you have given in to the anti-European nationalism of certain Member States that just want to monopolise fishing for themselves. They do not want to share, and are using the excuse of environmental fundamentalism which puts fish before human beings. Of course, we are in favour of conserving stocks, more so than you, as your proposals do not prioritise radical scientific reform, which has to be the very basis of the system, you relegate it to second place, to a second package. Big mistake. What is more, you allow the scandalous squandering of over a million tonnes of fish which one Member State destroys each year to convert into animal feed without asking how this affects the food chain of the species. That is not conservationism. You promise us studies, but we have had a fisheries policy for twenty years and you are still promising us studies. This is not acceptable. We need to divide up all available resources scientifically and update the level of dependency of the European regions, which is another thing you have failed to do. You have admitted that the studies are incomplete. A reform of this calibre cannot be tackled with incomplete studies of the extent of the dependency of the regions. Some fishing grounds are being reserved solely for certain States. Boats are being scrapped as if starting from scratch, as if some States had not already scrapped fifty per cent of their fleet while others have increased theirs. The reform goes against the social cohesion policy laid down until the year 2006, preventing economic operators from continuing with the activities they had planned in Objective 1 regions. They are not asking you for more money, Mr Fischler, but rather to carry on fishing. They want to continue to fish, they can continue and the European Union needs them to do so. With regard to foreign policy, Mr Fischler, you have broken your promise to Parliament that your reform would give equal treatment to shipbuilders and the northern agreements and shipowners and the southern agreements. You have not done this. You have restricted commercial agreements with third parties and outlawed mixed companies, thereby undermining the global position of the European fleet, increasing the vulnerability of our industry and making us more dependent on imports. This is a political error of the first order, an error on a scale never before seen in fisheries policy, and if we do not change this and make the sector more European, you will be sounding the death knell of an entire economic and social sector of strategic importance to the European Union. – ) Mr President, I just put two very specific questions to the Commissioner. He dealt with one, but has not replied to my question concerning premiums for beef. Perhaps it was not conveyed through the interpretation. I should like to repeat it if I may. Will the Commissioner authorise specific measures for heifers aged between 9 and 24 months and will he adjust the special premium for the slaughter of steers, changing the criterion from age to weight, namely 185 kilos? He has not provided an answer to these queries. . – Mr President, today we are discussing two new international fishing protocols between the European Union and third countries: Guinea and Mauritius, the Atlantic Ocean and the Indian Ocean. These two agreements are different in terms of geographical location, dimension, fishing allowances and financial compensation. However, at the end of the day, they are two important agreements which will add to the already significant network of international fisheries agreements between the European Union and third countries, the basic pillar of the common fisheries policy, since it is essential to cover our supply requirements, both for the European consumer and for our industry, and it is also essential to do so by means of our own fleet. The fisheries agreements with third countries therefore fulfil a crucial objective of the common fisheries policy, and they also contribute to employment and, in most cases, in European regions which are very dependent on this activity. They therefore create commercial balance, employment and preserve the competitiveness of Europe’s own significant fishing fleet. In its opinion on the 2001 budget, our committee has this afternoon approved the draft which our Vice-Chairman, Mrs Miguélez, had presented us, to increase budget line B7-8000 (International fisheries agreements) by EUR 7 million, thereby re-establishing the amounts in the preliminary draft budget presented at the time by the European Commission. Morocco, Mauritania and Greenland are great negotiating challenges for the European Commission and we all hope that these negotiations will soon conclude successfully. For the moment, we are happy today with the agreements with Guinea and Mauritius, which will cover important needs of different fleets, of different States of the European Union, in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans. Notable in both cases is the constant and worrying increase in the payments by shipowners while, curiously, these are not included in other agreements, as is notoriously the case with the agreement with Greenland. For example, in the case of Mauritius, there is an increase in the amount that shipowners are to pay for licences, of EUR 5 per tonne of fish, that is to say, they are increased from EUR 20 to EUR 25, and there is also an equivalent increase in the case of catches by ship. The European Union’s contribution is reduced by 29%, payable by shipowners which, in the case of complete exploitation of the fishing allowances, would mean a contribution of 23.5% of the total cost. In the previous protocol it was 7%, that is to say, there would be an increase from 7% to 23.5% of the total cost payable by shipowners. In this context we also wish to highlight the imbalances in the internal distribution of these fishing allowances by the European Commission amongst the Member States, as was the case with cephalopods in the agreement with Guinea. Both agreements give significant support to the local authorities for the conservation of their own fishing resources and furthermore advocate agreements between states as opposed to private agreements – which is very important in agreements such as the one with Morocco, which we are trying to negotiate – as well as the contribution of the European Union to the establishment of modern control systems, which forms part of the conservationist position of the European Union in all of the world’s seas, in accordance with its internal approach to its own Community waters. On the other hand, there is an important direct relationship between the financial compensation and the objectives and cooperation actions that have been agreed. In the case of the agreement with Mauritius, we are talking about 50%, as opposed to 30% in the previous agreement. As is so often the case, there is a lack of documentation for comparing figures and data between the protocols, although in this case we should thank the European Commission for including the minutes of the negotiations, in the case of Guinea, which makes more data available and ultimately makes the process more transparent. This is welcome and the European Parliament is grateful for it. The Committee on Fisheries has voted in favour of these agreements, and this has become the norm, since it considers that they are both highly beneficial to both parties, that is to say, the European Union and the third countries. The Liberal Group has now presented Parliament with an amendment of similar content to each of the reports which would mean – in the view of the rapporteur – that the common fisheries policy would cease to be common and would mean a departure from an important pillar of external policy. It would mean that only the direct beneficiaries of the agreement negotiated by the European Commission would pay for it, on behalf of the fifteen Member States of the European Union. The rapporteur is against this amendment, since, if only those who benefit directly from Community policies are to pay for them, that would quite simply be a way of breaking up the single market and dismantling the European Union itself. We are therefore in favour of both fisheries agreements, which we hope may continue in the future, and we are anxious, Commissioner, to be able soon to hold a debate in our Fisheries Committee, and to repeat what we are saying now, in relation to the extremely important fisheries agreement with Morocco. Keep up the hard work – I can see from the conversation we had this afternoon that you are working hard – and I encourage you also to move forward with that important negotiation. – Mr President, as President of the Committee on Fisheries and on behalf of all my colleagues in that committee, I would like to express my support for the request which our Scottish colleague, Mr Stevenson, has just made and also tell you that there has recently been a tragic accident involving a Galician fishing boat, the , with its Galician and Portuguese crew, which caught fire in the waters of Gran Sol. Unfortunately, these accidents are more frequent than we would all like and I would therefore like to point out that our committee has requested an own-initiative report on the causes of the risks and dangers associated with the fishing profession. I hope this report will be approved, because this long-suffering profession really needs the support of this House and of all of us. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as I am about to leave for one of these regional fisheries organisations in Marrakech, where I am due to arrive the day after tomorrow to take part as an observer for this Parliament, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, I should like to take part in this debate on our colleague Salvador Jové’s magnificent report, in which the position of our committee is made quite clear. We are backing the regional fisheries organisations; we are asking for more regional fisheries organisations and for the Commission to have more weight in them. When we say more organisations, we mean those that can and should be set up in the South Atlantic or South Pacific – as has already been said here – and for the Commission to take a leading role in them. I believe the future of fishing in international waters depends on these organisations, and the Commission must make every possible effort, Commissioner, to this end. To support the United Nations position in both the 1982 Convention and the New York one, which has been mentioned here, we must maintain a very active presence in these organisations in favour of responsible fishing. You can count on the support of this Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries, including our support for acquiring more material and human resources, which, as has been shown, are much needed. We are a budgetary authority and I believe we should fund this line, because in these organisations and in these waters we are staking a lot on the future of fisheries in the coming years. I want, therefore, to stress that the opinion of Parliament is practically unanimous, and so the Commission should realise that we are allies in this constructive endeavour to give the Commission greater weight – more staff, as we have said. In comparison with other nations the European Union representation is clearly small, so we have to have more and better representation, Mr Fischler. Let me say that we are going to continue this strategy of calling you before our committee in advance to inform us of the positions that you intend to advocate. We shall do so together with the fishing sector so that we can form a common, joint opinion Then you will have to return to the parliamentary committee for the Commission to report back to us. I should like to close, Mr President, by once again congratulating our rapporteur, Mr Jové, for the magnificent report he has drawn up. – Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity, in the presence of the Presidency-in-Office, which says it is going to study this issue again, to say that the excuse of conserving a resource such as hake, without sufficient or confirmed scientific reports, is at the origin of the discrimination against the Spanish fleet, which we are discussing here. The Commission has told us in the Committee on Fisheries that this discrimination is for social reasons in favour of Great Britain and France, and that that is the reason for the exception. Madam President, my question is why does the Commission, and in this case the Council, by a majority and for social reasons, not defend Spain, and specifically a region such as Galicia, which is an Objective One region and is therefore more needy, and whose fishermen traditionally fished in those waters which are now common. These fishermen, for social reasons, do not sleep at home, owing to the enormous distance they have to travel. If the reasons are social, I would ask you please to take account of the protection of Spanish fishermen. C. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, I wish to express our rejection of this emergency procedure, which the Council requested of Parliament on 18 January and which asks us to deliver our opinion before 14 February. Our committee has given a commitment to process this legislative proposal as rapidly and as diligently as possible, whilst adhering to the legislative procedures that have been laid down, according to which the vote will take place on 13 February in the Strasbourg part-session, as has already been scheduled on the agenda. I wish to take this opportunity, Mr President – because lately these last minute rushes have become a regular occurrence – to say that the Commission and the Council are given considerable notice, a whole year’s notice, of Parliament’s timetable, which should give them – and us too – sufficient time to work on processing these proposals. We were consulted too late, on 7 December to be precise, but even so, we appointed Mr Nicholson as rapporteur and he presented his draft report immediately, the following day, which was 8 December. As I say, we plan to vote in committee on Monday 5 February and debate the report in Parliament’s sitting of Monday 12 in Strasbourg, in order that the vote can be held on 13 February and thereby meet the deadlines that we have been set. I simply wish to point out that we have shown nothing but good will and have shown ourselves to be completely willing, but we do not want to be asked the impossible and, even less, to do our work badly. . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last night the Committee on Fisheries approved the report by our colleague, Mrs Miguélez Ramos, on the restructuring of the Community fisheries sector affected by the non-renewal of the fisheries agreement with Morocco. I would like to say to the House that this report is restricted to regulating the technical aspects relating to the social measures aimed at the many people affected; it is a very sensitive issue from a social, and therefore political, point of view, in the Member States affected by this restructuring. Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in a position to ask the House to vote in favour of this request for an urgent procedure presented by the Council, so that this proposal can be debated in Council by the Fisheries Ministers at their meeting called for the 27 November. – Mr President, the fisheries agreement with Greenland remains controversial, and this is because the fishing possibilities granted to the European Union are not fully used and the other Member States are not allowed to use them. In this way, the European Union is paying a very high price. We must remember that this is the most expensive agreement, together with the Mauritania agreement, since the Moroccan agreement disappeared, simply as a result of what is known as ‘paper fishing’. The fact that Member States other than the ones that traditionally benefit cannot use the fishing possibilities makes this agreement controversial. If we add the fact that, in the agreements with the South, shipowners have to contribute increasing amounts of tariffs for the funding of these agreements, while in Greenland they are exempt from these payments, we have another good reason to describe this as a discriminatory agreement. As chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to point out that the partial payment brought forward by the European Commission, before Parliament has expressed its view, has been strongly criticised in our committee because, while legally possible, it is nonetheless politically unacceptable. I hope that the mid-term review of this agreement – and of the common fisheries policy itself – will consider and overcome these difficulties, which have nothing to do – I stress – with Greenland, which is offering us its waters. The agreement must serve to genuinely promote fishing cooperation, opening up new avenues to new Member States in order to jointly develop the fishing potential of Greenland to our mutual benefit, that is to say, the benefit of those States and of the European Union, of those who are fishing now and of those other Member States who are not doing so. At this difficult time for the agreements with the South, after the failure of the negotiations with Morocco, I would like to take this opportunity, Commissioner, once again to remind you, for the second time in this debate, of the political priority and urgency of European solidarity, which should take the form of a generous, practical economic plan for the people affected by this agreement, as was approved at the Nice Summit. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today’s debate is extremely important and responds to the expectations of the citizens, who are calling for greater maritime safety. We Galicians are well aware of the problem, unfortunately, but I sincerely believe that we are moving in the right direction. The Commission has reacted quickly and correctly and we must once again congratulate the Commissioner, Mrs de Palacio, on her proposals. It is now our turn and, fundamentally, the turn of the Council. And I would like to stress the important step we are also taking on the issue of codecision, with the intention from the outset to agree common positions with the Council allowing us to speed up the very necessary entry into force of the legislative rules. I therefore hope that the Council will accept our proposals, and I believe that Parliament must stand firm, as our fellow Members have said, in particular Mr Piecyk. I would therefore like to congratulate our rapporteurs – Mr Pex, Mr Poignant and Mr Di Lello – on their efforts and their contributions to complementing and improving the Commission’s proposals in relation to these indispensable deterrent measures. The sea belongs to all of us, and whoever pollutes must pay the price, whether they do so intentionally or as a result of negligence, including criminal sanctions which could involve prison sentences. And the European Union must offer an example and lead this effective prosecution of offences against the marine environment at world level. We therefore also support measures, such as the preventive seizure of ships, aimed at guaranteeing compliance with the sanctions imposed. We also agree with the proposal in Mr Pex’s report that there must be a common European coastguard service, charged with monitoring one hundred percent compliance with this international and European legislation. This does not imply that we want to replace the national services in the Member States. We are talking about an additional monitoring and coordination measure, as well as a genuine Community system for monitoring the maritime traffic in dangerous goods, by satellite, with black boxes, etc. Another issue which is key to maritime safety, as has been demonstrated, is controls of flags of convenience. We must promote and incentivise European flags, and I therefore also share the opinion in the report by Mr Poignant that European symbols should begin to be used on ships’ flags, as currently happens in the European Union in the case of vehicle registration plates. With these two reports, the European Parliament is allying itself with the Commission and contributing to giving the European Union greater maritime safety and better environmental protection. All we need now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is for the Council to approve them and for them to enter into force quickly. – Mr Prodi, I address you in my capacity as President of this Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries. We have not heard you speak about fishing and, nevertheless, you must be aware that thousands and thousands of fishermen depend on it, thousands and thousands of families, thousands of secondary businesses and businesses involved in the processing of products which are necessary in the European Union, employment which is furthermore located in European regions and territories which are highly dependent on fishing. I want to be very clear in this intervention, Mr Prodi, and I want to tell you that Mr Fischler, who obviously knows a lot about agriculture, nevertheless knows little about fishing. He admitted this himself during his hearing and has also demonstrated it. However, he made us some political commitments which I would like to remind you of in your capacity as President-designate. Mr Fischler expressed orally the political commitment to maintain the current Directorate-General for Fisheries, amending the statement that he had made in writing in his questionnaire and thereby accepting the maintenance of the current Directorate-General for Fisheries. And I say current in the sense that we are talking of a specific Directorate-General, for Fisheries, with the status of Directorate-General. I say this because this is a  condition which we have established in our Committee and this is what was communicated to you in the letter which I signed myself. I ask you therefore to take good note of it, and I ask the same of Mr Kinnock, who is to the left of you, as Vice-President responsible for reform, since this is a  condition for maintaining the parliamentary trust which we have granted Mr Fischler in our Committee. Secondly, I would like to remind you that Mr Fischler granted us the written mandate for the negotiation of the crucial fishing agreement with Morocco, which is a matter of extreme urgency, so that this Parliament can continue to maintain the budgetary reserve of the item agreed by the Council and that your Commission, Mr Prodi, will not be responsible for the fact that there is no finance for this agreement in the future. – Mr President, Commissioner, I think we must first congratulate and thank the Commission for the fact that we are today holding this debate on the serious situation of the European shipbuilding industry. After the Council of Ministers for Industry, on 9 November, and the Commission’s report to Parliament on the situation of the world market in the shipbuilding industry, today we have heard this Commission statement to Parliament, which indicates that there is generalised concern within all the European institutions. But I agree with Mr Medina Ortega that this should not be a “remake”, because the concern and the measures announced, while significant, do not seem to us to be sufficient at this particular moment. Although this Parliament totally supports these measures, we ask above all for more urgency, more efficiency and more thoroughness. Free trade, but also fair trade, because everybody knows about the unfair practices in Korea, which make it impossible for our shipyards to be competitive, as has already been pointed out. The European Union, Commissioner, with all the political, economic, financial and commercial means at its disposal, must ensure that international rules are obeyed and put an end once and for all to Korean dumping, because the European sector can be viable in an environment of fair competition. Commissioner, we must also take advantage of the current unity in the European sector – I am referring to employers and unions – which has been shown in recent times and in recent days, to relaunch the European shipbuilding sector. We have to look for and find a European solution. Please allow me, Commissioner, to say that I believe that the future of the shipyards in Europe is a political question which requires brave, clear and unequivocal decisions on the part of the Commission of course, but also on all our parts, especially after the conclusions of the latest Council of Ministers for Industry. The aid which we have talked about today is also an instrument which the Commission must clarify, especially if it is a future strategy . Parliament and European industry must know this as soon as possible, since we believe – and after this debate I believe it too – that while the world markets are not stabilised, transitional protective measures are still necessary. And we ask for these measures – and I insist – urgently, since many of our shipyards run the serious risk of disappearing, despite being technically and economically viable. Finally, since I am also from a peripheral region, I would like to mention the enormous impact on regional development which the shipbuilding industry has, since that industry is based in many of these regions, many of them also included in Objective 1 of the European Regional Policy, with very significant shipyards which generate much direct and indirect employment, a social equilibrium which the countries undergoing cohesion need so much, which demands European solidarity. On their behalf I ask, in the case of the shipbuilding industry, for special consideration within the European Union’s regional and competition policy. I will conclude, Commissioner. I believe that Parliament’s message today is one of support for energetic action by the Commission in this field. Thank you for your statement and for the efforts which the Commission has been making, but do not be afraid to apply measures energetically and urgently, as we have asked you today in the European Parliament. We are not going to deal with this issue any further. It has been fully debated in recent days and the President of Parliament has made several eloquent statements in relation to it. The debates on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law are closed. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0205/2004) by Mr Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at common borders as regards access to the Schengen Information System by the services in the Member States responsible for issuing registration certificates for vehicles. Thank you very much, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place this afternoon following the debates. In light of the shocking recent admission by Abul Qadeer Khan, the recently-resigned chief scientific advisor to the President of Pakistan, that he organised a nuclear weapons procurement and sales network, secretly selling nuclear weapons components to Iran, Libya, and North Korea, will the Presidency take urgent steps to halt the export from European Union Member States of nuclear weapons-useable nuclear materials, including plutonium from sites such as Sellafield and highly enriched uranium, at least until the extent of the illicit procurement of nuclear explosive capability has been properly established? The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0346/2003) by Mr Rothley, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles (COM(2002) 244 – C5-0269/2002 – 2002/0124(COD)). The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0265/2003) by Mrs Honeyball, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission communication on taxation of passenger cars in the European Union (COM(2002) 431  C5-0573/2002  2002/2260(INI)). That concludes the explanations of vote in writing. Thank you very much, Mr Hyland. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0018/2004) by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on agriculture and agricultural research in the framework of CAP reform (2003/2052(INI)). The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. The next item is the joint debate on the following seven motions for resolutions tabled by: – Niall Andrews, on behalf of the UEN Group, on Nigeria (B5-0194/2004); – Charles Tannock, John Alexander Corrie, Lennart Sacrédeus and Bernd Posselt, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on Nigeria (B5-0203/2004); – Didier Rod, Marie Anne Isler Béguin and Nelly Maes, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on Nigeria (B5-0205/2004); – Bastiaan Belder, on behalf of the EDD Group, on Nigeria (B5-0206/2004); – Margrietus J. van den Berg, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSE, on Nigeria (B5-0209/2004); – Bob van den Bos, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on Nigeria (B5-0211/2004); – Yasmine Boudjenah, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on Nigeria (B5-0213/2004). As the time allotted to questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 9 to 26 will be replied to in writing . That concludes Question Time to the Council. The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - (B5-0493/2003) by Mr van den Berg, on behalf of the PSE Group, on religious freedoms in Vietnam; - (B5-0494/2003) by Mr Belder, on behalf of the EDD Group, on religious freedoms in Vietnam; - (B5-0499/2003) by Mrs André-Léonard, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the lack of religious freedoms in Vietnam; - (B5-0502/2003) by Mr Nassauer, Mr Posselt and Mr Mann, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on religious freedoms in Vietnam; - (B5-0503/2003) by Mrs Angelilli, on behalf of the UEN Group, on religious freedoms in Vietnam; - (B5-0506/2003) by Mrs McKenna, Mrs Isler Béguin and Mrs Frassoni, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the lack of religious freedoms in Vietnam and the deliberate elimination of the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam; - (B5-0509/2003) by Mr Sjöstedt, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on human rights in Vietnam. The debate is closed. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0056/2004) by Mrs Randzio-Plath, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1177/2002 concerning a temporary defensive mechanism to shipbuilding. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon. Since the beginning of this year an information sheet on 'entry into the territories under the control of the Palestinian Authority' has been distributed to visitors, voluntary workers and officials of the European Union and international organisations. The document states that entry into the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, referred to as Judea and Samaria (Areas A) is forbidden without prior written authorisation from the Israeli authorities. Entry into these territories without such authorisation may result in legal measures being taken against the persons concerned, including deportation and refusal of future re-entry into Israel. Does the Council not consider that this is a violation of the Oslo Agreements and, more generally, international law, as well as a deliberate disregard for the sovereignty of the Palestinian National Authority? Given that the Palestinian National Authority does not control any borders, does the Council not consider that this constitutes an obstacle to the freedom of movement of those wishing to enter the Palestinian territories? Has the Council made any representations to the Israeli authorities, requesting that they withdraw the document and the measures set out in it, or does it intend to take such action in the future? Thank you very much, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon. We have come to the end of the agenda. You have the floor, Mr Jarzembowski. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0235/2004) by Mr van Velzen, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a multiannual Community programme to make digital content in Europe more accessible, usable and exploitable (COM(2004) 96 - C5-0082/2004 - 2004/0025(COD)). On International Women’s Day the President cannot refuse any request. So please take a seat, Mrs Wallström. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0080/2004) by Mr Graça Moura, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the role of schools and learning at school in giving the greatest number of people access to culture. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. . – Mr President, Mrs Ahern is a much-respected fellow Member of this House and I hold her in high esteem. Sadly, at the end of her intervention she referred to the nuclear package as nonsense. That amounts to condemning as totally worthless the work undertaken by the Commission. By implication, Mrs Ahern also condemned as totally worthless the work undertaken in good faith by the rapporteurs with a view to improving on the Commission’s proposal. All this work was dismissed as nonsense. In my view, Mr President, nonsense is an unduly pejorative word to use. I would never resort to it to describe Mrs Ahern’s views and opinions. I would certainly refrain from referring to them as nonsense. I might say they were mistaken, lacking in rigour or unrealistic, but I would never dismiss them as nonsense. For the sake of my personal regard for Mrs Ahern, and in the interests of parliamentary courtesy, I therefore call on Mrs Ahern to withdraw the word nonsense. As I said, I believe it is unduly derogatory. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. Parliament has reached the end of its agenda. I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon. Thank you very much, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0360/2003) by Mr Blak, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the discharges to be given for the financial year 2001 to: 1. the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (C5-0102/2003 – 2003/2046(DEC)) 2. the European Environment Agency (C5-0098/2003 – 2003/2044(DEC)) 3. the Translation Centre for the bodies of the European Union (C5-0100/2003 – 2003/2045(DEC)) 4. the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (C5-0096/2003 – 2003/2043(DEC)) 5. the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (C5-0094/2003 – 2003/2042(DEC)). The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0400/2003) by Mrs Lucas, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on a European Union strategy to reduce atmospheric emissions from seagoing ships (COM(2002) 595  C5-0154/2003  2003/2064(INI)) Thank you, Commissioner. Ladies and gentlemen, the next item on the agenda was to be the Commission statement on salmon, but at 4.30 p.m. we have the Commission statement on the financial perspective, which will be chaired by the President of Parliament and which is to be attended by the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, and it cannot be changed. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, so as not to spoil the statement on salmon, which would have to be stopped after five minutes, we are going to suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. I am sorry, Mr Beazley. You can be sure that I am following the Rules of Procedure. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0024/2004) by Mr Souchet, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing measures for the recovery of the Northern hake stock (COM(2003) 374 – C5-0314/2003 – 2003/0137(CNS)). The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0407/2003) by Mrs Miguélez Ramos, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 2561/2001 aiming to promote the conversion of fishing vessels and of fishermen that were, up to 1999, dependent on the fishing agreement with Morocco (COM(2003) 437  C5-0357/2003  2003/0157(CNS)). Mr Ortuondo, you will only be able to act as substitute for Mr Nogueira, because in accordance with the Rules of Procedure there are other Members who wish to put supplementary questions. Please restrict yourself to speaking as a questioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading (A5-0217/2004), on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 95/93 on common rules for the allocation of slots at Community airports (Rapporteur: Mr Stockmann). Mr Rübig has the floor for a point of order. Thank you, Mr Rübig. We take note of what you say, which will be dealt with in the appropriate manner. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0144/2004) by Mr Marinho, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament entitled ‘Towards more accessible, equitable and managed asylum systems’. Thank you very much, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0237/2004) by Mr Rübig, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Decision 2000/819/EC on a multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, and in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) (2001-2005) (COM(2003) 758 – C5-0628/2003 – 2003/0292(COD)). The next item is Question Time (B5-0066/2004). The following questions are addressed to the Council. We shall now continue the item which was interrupted, which is the debate on the report (A5-0022/2004) by Mr Garot, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the development of agricultural incomes in the European Union (2002/2258(INI)). Documents that have been obtained by a civil liberties organisation, EPIC, under the US Freedom of Information Act, reveal that the US-based Northwest Airlines – providing connections between main US and European cities – disclosed millions of passenger records to NASA as part of a massive datamining experiment. The data were disclosed in violation of Northwest's privacy policy, and the collection and use by NASA may also have violated the US federal Privacy Act. Under European Union law, the routine disclosure of personal information for purposes unrelated to the original collection is prohibited. Is the Council aware of this violation of EU and US laws? Does the Council know if these data concern EU citizens, and if they involve PNR data? When will the Council raise this issue with the competent US authorities? Does the Council not consider that the current US policy on privacy (transfers of personal data to NASA, creation of CAPPS II, unilateral initiatives on passengers' data infringing EU laws) cannot allow the US to be defined as 'adequate' in terms of the EU directives, as also stated by the French CNIL and other national privacy authorities, as well as privacy advocates? Mr Beazley, I have applied the Rules of the House that allow for two speakers, of different groups, in addition to the Member formulating the question. I have followed the Rules of Procedure. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0445/2003) by Mr Moraes, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the Communication from the Commission on immigration, integration and employment (COM(2003) 336 – 2003/2147(INI)). I am afraid that I cannot give you the floor, Mr Patakis, because you were not originally given the floor, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I cannot give it to you now. The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - (B5-0490/2003) by Mr Cushnahan, Mr Van Orden, Mr Mann, Mr Bradbourn and Mr Posselt, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on Sri Lanka - (B5-0492/2003) by Mr van den Berg and Mrs Carrilho, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the situation in Sri Lanka; - (B5-0495/2003) by Mr Collins, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the threat to the peace process in Sri Lanka; - (B5-0498/2003) by Mr Andreasen, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the political situation in Sri Lanka; - (B5-0505/2003) by Mr Messner and Mrs Lambert, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the peace process in Sri Lanka; - (B5-0510/2003) by Mr Vinci, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on Sri Lanka. The debate is closed. The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0418/2003) by Mr Koch, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 74/408/EEC relating to motor vehicles with regards to the seats, their anchorages and head restraints [COM(2003) 361  C5-0283/2003  2003/0128(COD)]. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. Cuba's annual Book fair is a cultural and media event of great international prestige. This year the organisers planned that Germany should be 'guest of honour', but the German government, in line with the Common Position defined by the Council and its recent policy of cultural sanctions against Cuba, turned down the invitation. However, the number of writers and publishers from Germany and other EU countries attending has not been reduced. Does the Council consider that the Common Position and the sanctions are beneficial, or merely detrimental to both Cuban and European culture? Did the Council not feel that its authority was being undermined, in view of the fact that the European businessmen and authors invited to the Book Fair ignored the Council's line and will take part? A number of them have said that the policy of cultural sanctions imposed on Cuba by the EU is 'absurd, unjust and contrary to our interests'. The next item is the joint debate on the following four motions for resolutions presented by: – Stephen Hughes, Margrietus J. van den Berg, Marie-Hélène Gillig and Anna Karamanou, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSE, Jean Lambert, Theodorus J.J. Bouwman and Hiltrud Breyer, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Gerhard Schmid, Emmanouil Bakopoulos and Dimitrios Koulourianos, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on respect for basic working standards in the production of sport products for the Olympic Games (B5-0191/2004); – Anne Elisabet Jensen, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on respect for basic working standards in the production of sport products for the Olympic Games (B5-0200/2004); – Bartho Pronk, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on respect for basic working standards in the production of sport products for the Olympic Games (B5-0202/2004); – Brian Crowley, on behalf of the UEN Group, on respect for basic working standards in the production of sport products for the Olympic Games (B5-0191/2004). Mr President, I would like to make three observations in relation to what we have heard here this morning. The first observation relates to the difficulty raised by certain Members regarding the difference, in their scandalous judgment, between the pay of an MEP and that of certain political posts in candidate countries. Mr President, I believe that this difficulty makes no sense, because, within the fifteen current Member States there are also differences in income, and we are not for that reason going to establish different pay for each of them. And within each Member State there are regions with different levels of income and, as far as I know, national Members of Parliament are not paid differently according to the region they come from. Therefore, Mr President, it is entirely logical that there should be a single statute and pay should be the same for all the Member States, and observations of this type seem to me to be offensive to the candidate countries. The second observation relates to the idea that MEPs should be paid from the budgets of their respective States. Mr President, this is absurd as well, because if our function is European, our pay should come from the European budget, or are Members of Parliament in the national states paid by their constituency within the State? They are paid by the State as a whole. The third observation, Mr President, relates to the idea we have heard about the homogeneity which must exist between the pay of the European Member of Parliament and the national Member of Parliament. This is also absurd, Mr President, or is it the case that in the Member States a councillor of a small town is paid the same as a councillor of the large city, or a councillor the same as a senator? Each post receives a salary in accordance with its level and its scope. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, all the factors for resolving this problem are on the table; the ball is in your court. Resolve them once and for all, because this problem has gone on too long. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0393/2003) by Mr Bösch, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the Commission report on the assessment of the activities of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) (COM(2003) 154  2002/2237(INI)) How does the Council propose to follow up Parliament's resolution adopted in December with regard to China and the maintenance of the EU arms embargo? How can the Council reassure Parliament that, despite the decision taken in Rome afterwards by the Council to put the issue on the agenda of the General Affairs and External Relations Council (GEARC) for 're-examination', the embargo will not be lifted in silence in one of the forthcoming GEARC meetings? They belong to different groups. I will pass on your request, Mr Patakis, and I am sure we will find a way for you to take the floor. The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. – Mr President, the so-called nuclear package we are debating tonight was devised in response to the enlargement of the Union and in particular to the Green Paper on safety in energy supply. Enlargement brings into the Union a number of countries producing electricity through fission. The safety culture and the power stations in those countries differ from those in Western Europe. In addition, the technical criteria are at variance with those now common in the Europe of 15. Thanks to the accession process, the countries in question have met all the safety objectives required set for them. There is absolutely no need for concern on that score. Nonetheless, I would remind the House that nuclear power is not perceived simply in strictly technical, practical or scientific terms. It is perhaps unfortunate that the issue of nuclear power tends to be permeated by ideology and all too often by emotion. Consequently, it was absolutely essential for the Union to provide its citizens with a regulatory framework at European level in order to allay specific and well-founded fears. This nuclear package was devised to meet that need and we believe it does so effectively. One of the basic conclusions of the Green Paper is that all options for the future of energy in Europe must be kept open. Allow me to emphasise the use of the word all. It does of course cover the generation of electricity through nuclear fission. Due to the emotional factors I mentioned earlier it is extremely important to ensure that the establishment of a legally binding European regulatory framework guaranteeing nuclear safety becomes a common objective for the Union. This involves a common methodology and the necessary guarantees that any anomaly or incident will be dealt with by reference to the latest available technical developments. Such is the added value the nuclear package also provides for public opinion across the Union. There was considerable debate as to whether the nuclear package called for directives, or whether recommendations, guidelines or other weaker legal instruments would suffice. In my opinion, Mr President, recourse to weaker legal instruments would have rendered the whole exercise meaningless. What the citizens of Europe are insisting on is that their demand concerning the highest possible standards for these facilities be met. This can only be achieved through a legally binding instrument such as a directive. With reference to the two specific legislative initiatives considered, I can say that Parliament’s concerns have been appropriately recorded in our respective reports. I could mention the adjustment of the timetable concerning the creation of final storage sites for high-level waste. I could also mention avoidance of a situation in which European regulations were superimposed on national ones. Such duplication would have been inefficient. Further, efforts were made to ensure the public was fully informed and involved throughout the whole process. I should add that we believed it was essential for the directive on waste to leave open the option of further research in the future. Although storage in deep geological repositories in stable strata is currently the preferred option, the situation could change. Commissioner, this nuclear package certainly represents a step forward. Your approach to the difficulties arising has demonstrated how, although outwardly frozen, you actually have within you a bow of burning gold and the arrows of desire to take decisions. Lastly, the nuclear package demonstrates something further. It demonstrates that, as one of Spain’s greatest twentieth-century thinkers maintained, the solutions to problems it is difficult to solve at national level lie in Europe. The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place this afternoon following the debates. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0410/2003) by Mrs Randzio-Plath, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 77/388/EEC as regards reduced rates of value added tax (COM(2003) 397  C5-0359/2003  2003/0169(CNS)). The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0473/2003) by Mr Mulder and Mrs Gill, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the year 2004 as modified by the Council (all sections) (11357/2003  C5-0600/2003  2003/2001(BUD)  2003/2002(BUD)) and Letters of Amendment Nos 1, 2 and 3/2004 (14837/2003  C5-0570/2003, 14838/2003  C5-0571/2003, 14839/2003  C5-0572/2003) to the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2004 Section I  European Parliament Section II – Council Section III – Commission Section IV  Court of Justice Section V  Court of Auditors Section VI  Economic and Social Committee Section VII  Committee of the Regions Section VIII(A)  European Ombudsman Section VII(B)  European Data Protection Supervisor The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place following the debates. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0406/2003) by Mr Stevenson, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the conclusion of the Fisheries Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Mozambique (COM(2003) 419  C5-0354/2003  2003/0154(CNS)). We shall proceed to the vote. ***   *** Thank you very much, Mr Wachtmeister. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Mrs Miguélez, you began your speech by saying ‘it is me again’. The fact that you have spoken more than once in one evening simply demonstrates that you are very hard-working. You know that the Presidency is always very happy to hear you. Thank you very much, Mr Jarzembowski. The next sitting will take place tomorrow, Thursday. The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place following the debates. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. What action is the Council taking to step up measures against forced prostitution, child prostitution and trafficking in human beings at the present Schengen border with the accession countries, and also at the eastern borders of the new Member States? On 1 May 2004, the number of official languages of the Union will pass from 11 to 20, and this will involve a modification of Council Regulation 1/1958. Gaeilge, while a Treaty language under Article 314, is not listed under secondary legislation as an official language. Can the Council confirm that the procedure for granting the status of official language to Gaeilge is for an application to this effect to be made by the Irish Government, and can the Council outline the procedure that would follow such an application? Finally, will the Council state whether there are factors which would prevent such an application from being successful? The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - (B5-0491/2003) by Mr van den Berg and Mrs McAvan, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the situation in the Indonesian province of Aceh; - (B5-0496/2003) by Mrs Sandbæk, on behalf of the EDD Group, on the situation in Aceh; - (B5-0497/2003) by Mr Andreasen, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on Indonesia/Aceh; - (B5-0501/2003) by Mr Bowis, Mr Tannock and Mr Posselt, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on the situation in the Indonesian province of Aceh; - (B5-0507/2003) by Mr Wuori, Mrs Maes and Mrs McKenna, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the situation in the Indonesian province of Aceh; - (B5-0508/2003) by Mr Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on Indonesia/Aceh. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0125/2004) by Mrs Maes, on behalf of the European Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee on a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of third countries’ aircraft using Community airports. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0017/2004) by Mrs Frahm, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on persistent organic pollutants and amending Directives 79/117/EEC and 96/59/EC. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - A5-0388/2003 by Mr Pex, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on ship-source pollution and on the introduction of sanctions, including criminal sanctions, for pollution offences (COM(2003) 92 – C5-0076/2003 – 2003/0037(COD)); - A5-0413/2003 by Mr Poignant, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on the transfer of cargo and passenger ships between registers within the Community (COM(2003) 478 – C5-0366/2003 – 2003/0180(COD)); and - A5-0373/2003 by Mr Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council framework decision to strengthen the criminal law framework for the enforcement of the law against ship-source pollution (COM(2003) 227 – C5-0244/2003 – 2003/0088(CNS)). Yes, Mr Beazley, but after Mr Paisley, who had requested the floor first. Thank you, Mrs Sartori. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0143/2004) by Mr Scarbonchi, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on budgetisation of the European Development Fund (EDF). Please follow the Presidency’s instructions. Since those who were due to speak are not present, the debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0362/2003) by Mr Cashman, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the adoption of measures concerning the repatriation of mortal remains (2003/2032(INI)) The next item is the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the Rule of Law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, we have added another floor to the building of the Union’s energy policy which the Commission – and in particular Vice-President de Palacio – have been promoting since the beginning of this legislative period. The well-known cornerstones of this energy policy are security of supply, reducing our energy bill and the preservation of the environment. Cogeneration is a very valuable instrument in terms of fulfilling these objectives and therefore this directive was timely and necessary. We have seen clearly during this discussion and the production of this important legislative initiative that sometimes two interests, two sectors, are in clear conflict. In this case, the two interests to be harmonised were that of those who produce heat and that of those who use heat in an industrial process. These two interests in conflict were represented curiously by two physical parameters: the energy efficiency of the installation and the saving of primary energy. What we have done through our work together has been to try to ultimately achieve a balanced approach which establishes the foundations for the promotion of cogeneration, dealing objectively with all the interests involved in this significant activity. I believe, Mr President, that we have achieved this thanks to the excellent work of the rapporteur, Mr Glante, and of the various Members who have contributed to this objective and ultimately we have demonstrated that consensus does not always spoil things, but there are occasions when consensus, in the end, achieves a result which today we can all celebrate. I would therefore like to end, Mr President, by expressing my satisfaction with this achievement. We have undoubtedly taken a step forward in relation to this energy policy which we all share and let us hope that this directive will soon result in a harmonised method and a unified model for promoting cogeneration which allows us to achieve the objectives which we have all been pursuing for some time. The next item is the debate on the oral question (B5-0413/2003) by Mr Rocard, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the current situation of the European networks and Info-Points. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon. The next item is the joint debate on the following reports on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: -A5-0402/2003 by Mr Van den Berg, on European governance (COM(2002) 704  COM(2002) 705  COM(2002) 713  C5-0200/2003  2003/2085(INI)); and -A5-0401/2003 by Mr MacCormick, on the communication from the Commission: a framework for contracts and tripartite agreements between the Community, the States and the regional and local authorities (COM(2002) 709  C5-0202/2003  2003/2088(INI)). The next item is the joint debate: - on the report (A5-0358/2003) by Mrs Prets, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a Community action programme to promote bodies active at European level in the field of youth (COM(2003) 272  C5-0257/2003  2003/0113(COD)). - on the report (A5-0357/2003) by Mrs Pack, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a Community action programme to promote bodies active at European level and support for specific activities in the field of education and training (COM(2003) 273  C5-0255/2003  2003/0114(COD)). - on the report (A5-0359/2003) by Mrs Iivari, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a Community action programme to promote bodies active at European level in the field of culture (COM(2003) 275  C5-0262/2003  2003/0115(COD)). The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before I start I would like to say that I have been a Member of the European Parliament for just 19 days and this is my first speech to this illustrious House, and perhaps the last, but I do not think it is audacious of me to talk about culture today, because for the last eight years I have been Managing Director of , a European channel which has observed and broadcast the activities of Parliament, the Commission and the Council, but which has also put an enormous amount of effort into observing and broadcasting European cultural activities, whether official or not. And as a person from outside who can perhaps comment with fewer political implications, I would like to say that culture is very broad, it has many facets and that two European capitals is not excessive. In sport we have two Olympic games, in winter and in summer, within the same year, and no harm is done. Culture is perhaps even broader and we cannot deny the new countries which are going to join us the opportunity to organise and hold a European capital of culture in one of its cities. I personally and my group therefore support the Commission’s position of naming two cities as European capitals of culture. On the issue of how to select them, we believe that competition should prevail. This is provided for, to a degree, by having two cities from two different countries within the same year. But we should also try to ensure that there is a degree of competition amongst candidatures from the same country. We hope that the Commission can resolve this issue. Mr President, thank you for giving the floor to this very fleeting Member of Parliament. I joined the House on 19 April and I will leave on 19 July, with two months of interruption. In other words, I will have been a Member for just one month, but, over this month, I entered a Parliament with 623 Members and 15 countries and I will leave a Parliament with more than 700 Members and 25 countries. What a change I have brought to these institutions! Over the last eight years, however, I have also been working in connection with the institutions and particularly in the world of communication. I have had meetings with several Commissioners, first with Commissioner Marcelino Oreja, then with Mrs Viviane Reding and recently with Commissioner Vitorino. It is communication that I would like to talk about now and my question to President Prodi will focus on it. Communication is very important and I believe that the European institutions must have a genuine communication policy. Not a propaganda policy, but a communication policy. I would like to ask President Prodi whether he believes that the last method he used, taking the communication of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport and giving it directly to the Presidency, is the most appropriate, and whether he believes that now, with a much expanded College of Commissioners, the communication policy – always in accordance with the guidelines established by the European Parliament – should be led by the Commission in a more direct fashion, with a view to creating a genuine European spirit. . – Mr President, doping is not a new problem. It did not even start this century, but comes from the last century. In fact, the first death from doping took place in 1896, when a cyclist took drugs. The first measures against doping, however, began to be taken after the first Helsinki Olympic games in 1952, but it was in the Tour de France of 1998 that the problem became too big and the serious fight against it began. In fact, we have already heard this morning that it is a priority for the French Presidency, the Council and also for the Commission. We have to assess why this problem exists and why doping has increased so much in recent years. On the one hand, it is worth mentioning the over-commercialisation that is affecting sport, as well as the saturation of sporting calendars and greater demands on sportsmen and women, both physical and mental. Before, the motto of sport was that of Pierre de Coubertin, ‘the important thing is taking part’. Now, however, it seems that whoever comes first wins, whoever comes second loses, and the rest just take part. On the other hand, we should not forget that, these days, an increasing number of tests are being done, many of them outside competitions, and this also means that, logically, more cases of doping are being discovered. However, it is very important to distinguish between the two types of doping: on the one hand, there is intentional or planned doping, that is, a team plans which substances the sportsman or woman needs to take, and when, in order to improve his or her physical performance. Logically, this is more common in sports with greater financial resources. On the other hand, there is accidental doping, which often does not even improve the sportsman or woman’s physical performance. This tends to be more common in sports which have few resources, so that often public opinion does not even realise what has happened. Obviously, we have to fight both types of doping, although each one should be approached in a very different manner. Combating intentional or planned doping is much more difficult. Police cooperation plays a very important role, because we should not forget that the trafficking of doping substances is worth EUR 1 billion per year. It is also important to listen to sportsmen and women when drawing up sporting calendars or planning a competition or trial. Sometimes, we ask them to do more than is physically possible without turning to external help. Overall, we need to fight doping globally. It is not an isolated problem for one Member State and therefore the presence of the European Union in the World Anti-Doping Agency is absolutely essential. Combating accidental doping is much easier. It is mainly due to the lack of information among sportsmen and women, and the report therefore proposes that there should be an indicator on the boxes of pharmaceutical products, consisting of five Olympic rings and a traffic light. Thus, when buying a drug, sportsmen and women will be able to clearly see the red traffic light indicating the risk of testing positive, or the green light which indicates that there is no risk, or the amber light indicating that there may be a risk and that they should contact their doctor or a specialist for advice. This is very important, because we now have fifteen Member States with fifteen lists of prohibited substances, and in each country there can be a different brand name for the same drug. For this purpose, we ask for the intervention of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency. However, even though the types of doping are different, sportsmen and women receive the same treatment and from the moment that they have a positive result they are considered to be guilty, with no right to prove their innocence and without an assessment of whether the doping was intentional or not, as occurs with other things in life. We also call on the European Commission to request that the Fifth Framework Programme carry out research into doping substances and their impact on the health of sportsmen and women, detection methods and the natural limits of hormones that can be produced by the human body. With regard to laboratories, it is very important that they comply with ISO standards on uniform methods for collecting and analysing samples, and also that there should be protection and confidentiality, both in collection and in dealing with the case, in order to preserve sportsmen and women’s right to honour and privacy. Finally, I will mention penalties. When a person other than the sportsman or woman has taken part, such as a club, an association, a federation, a doctor, a coach, etc., that person should also be subject to a penalty, exactly equal to that given to the sportsman or woman, because we should not forget that the person with the shortest working life will always be the sportsman or woman. Commissioner, thank you for your reply. I would like to ask you whether you believe that the fact that the Commission has over recent years had to adopt this series of decisions relating to sport in the field of policy and competition highlights even more clearly – if that is possible – the need to include an article on sport in the future European Union Treaty. Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for all her efforts in favour of European culture and the rapporteur, Mrs Prets, for the work she has done and above all for dealing with the many amendments. My country, Spain, is a country with great cultural diversity and wealth and we are naturally entirely in favour of cultural diversity. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we would have liked the report, rather than referring to non-uniform cultural identities, to have referred to the plurality of cultural identities in the European Union. The focus used seems to us, in general, to be rather negative. And the reality is that, in many countries of Europe, cultural identities are not uniform, precisely because they are plural and we must not forget that this is one of our great assets. We must not forget that the right of each Member State to define, apply and adapt its cultural policies is subject to national legislation and, therefore, this must be done in accordance with their respective national legislations. I would like to say finally that, given that there are differing positions and concerns with regard to this issue in the European Union, I believe it would be correct for us to leave it in the hands of Unesco as well. – Madam President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, our colleague, Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines, because I believe she is the most suitable person to be rapporteur for this report on universities and higher education, and she has demonstrated her great experience in this field. I would like to focus on sport. In Europe it is very difficult to combine studies with sport and this means that our young people eventually have to choose between the two. We parents naturally try to have an influence on this choice and we encourage them to chose studies instead of sport, since they seem to us to offer more security. In other countries, such as the United States, sport and university studies are entirely compatible. And not only are they compatible, but a North American student actually has access to many more universities and opportunities thanks to sport than they would without it. The European Union must promote sport in universities, both inside and outside the university itself. We must promote the participation of university teams in competitions between universities (regional, national, international, etc.) and perhaps – and why not? – we could apply part of the Erasmus programme, which is having great success, to providing mobility for university sports teams, as enjoyed by other students. We must not forget that young people who divide their time between studies and sport are not left with much energy and time to indulge in other activities which we would all consider less advisable. – Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for this report, Mrs Fraisse, for all her efforts. Ladies and gentlemen, times have changed a lot. Just imagine, in 1912, when the legendary Pierre de Coubertin was asked about the possibility of organising Olympic games for women he replied as follows: ‘This is impracticable, lacking in interest, anti-aesthetic and incorrect. The conception of the Olympic games must be based on the following formula: the solemn periodic manifestation of male sport based on internationalism, on loyalty as a means, on arts as a background and the applause of women as a recompense’. One hundred years is not so long ago. We women did not then participate in the Olympic games, but now we make up more than 40% of participants. And if we bear in mind that there are continents for which participation is extremely low, I believe that we have truly made great progress. However, as a person who has dedicated 20 years of their life to sport, first as an amateur and then as a professional, I believe there are two fronts on which we still have an awful lot to do and a very long way to travel. The first is the media. In Spain we have sports newspapers, which only cover sports, and they are some of the most widely read newspapers in our country – even more than the national newspapers – and they hardly dedicate 4% of their content to women's sport, and what is more, the content relating to women's sport often consists of news of a sentimental nature or on the postures or clothing of our sportswomen. This is not just a Spanish problem. In France, the daily  dedicates a maximum of 5% of its news to women's sport. It is therefore a problem which affects the whole of the European Union. The second front consists of sporting bodies. In the world of politics, we often complain that women’s participation is too low; nevertheless, I must point out that women’s participation in politics is light years ahead of their participation in sporting bodies. In view of such a dramatic situation, in 1996 the International Olympic Committee decided that, by the end of 2000, 10% of all posts in all decision-making structures should be reserved for women, including in the international federations and bodies belonging to the Olympic movement, with a view to raising this quota to 20% by 2005. These are ridiculously low quotas, but what makes the situation even more serious is that these quotas are not being achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, at the closing of the First Conference on Women and Sport, in October 1996 in Lausanne, Juan Antonio Samaranch stated that the twenty-first century should be the new era for women’s participation in the world of sport. Amongst all of us, men and women, we must do everything we can to make this statement by Juan Antonio Samaranch a reality. – Mr Andersson’s question seems very interesting to me, and having been a professional sportsman for the last 20 years, drug taking in sport is an issue which interests me and worries me very much. As has just been said, in February this year the World Conference on Drug Taking in Sport took place and it was decided that an international agency to combat drug taking in sport would be created. Eight months have passed and this agency has still not been established because one very important issue has not been decided, which is where the agency will be based. The European Union does not want the agency to be based in Lausanne, at the headquarters of the International Olympic Committee but, nevertheless, wants to have it in one of the Member States of the European Union. Possible locations such as Madrid, Bonn, Luxembourg, Lille, Vienna, Lisbon or London are under discussion. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether, in order to achieve our aim, it would not be better to unite all our forces and, with the backing of all the Member States, present a single European candidate as a seat for this agency. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, like the previous speakers, I believe it is essential to have a legal basis which provides us with a stable budget for European youth, culture and education programmes. These programmes, which naturally the European Commission, Parliament and Council must be involved in, must have, firstly, the relevant legal basis, and that is moving in the right direction and, secondly, an adequate budget. And that is what we in the European institutions must do next in relation to European youth, education and culture. I have often said in this House, and I will not tire of doing so, and today I am going to say it again, that the future of Europe lies in its youth. It cannot be any other way. And the future of Europe is going to depend very much on the education received by these young people. Although in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity education is not our responsibility, we can make a great and very positive contribution to the creation of a more united, knowledgeable, cohesive, cultured and educated Europe; this is what we all want. In the end this will benefit all Europeans. I would therefore ask that, when we have finished the battle over the legal basis, amongst all of us we begin the battle to increase the budgets for youth, culture and education until they receive the sums they truly deserve, because that will benefit all of us. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, my friend and colleague, Juan José Bayona, on his work and his good ideas in this report, and also the Commissioner, Mr Vitorino, on his initiative. When we talk about Europe, it reminds me a bit of school, where we always said ‘I have passed’ or ‘they have failed me’. Here, when something goes well, it is the country or region that claims all the credit, but when something goes badly, or there is a disaster, Europe is usually blamed. When they say, ‘it is Europe's fault’, the citizens do not even know which institution they are referring to, because in reality they do not know them, and they cannot distinguish between them. We must acknowledge that we have not made it at all easy for them. There may be languages in which it is not so difficult, but in Spanish we have the  [European Commission] and the  [committees] of Parliament, the  [Council of Europe] and the  [European Council]. We know that they are completely different things, but the public in general does not know, and we must acknowledge that these coincidences or similarities are very unfortunate. That is why I believe that this report on the European Union's information strategies and subsequent implementation of the programmes are so important and vital to the citizens of the Union. Please allow me now to relate this issue to my field; the field of sport. We must not forget that sport is a great instrument for communication and has a genuinely important multiplying effect. If we in this Parliament support the inclusion of an article referring to sport in the new Treaties of the European Union, we may have sport programmes which have a great impact, and this would benefit all of us. Furthermore, if we bear in mind that the essential thing is to educate and inform young people, who will be the real protagonists of the European Union within a few years and who will be its future, and that it is they who sporting information can mostly reach, we would truly be completing a circle which would be of the greatest interest and benefit in terms of the image of all the institutions of the European Union. Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, I would firstly like to say, on behalf of the shadow rapporteur, Mrs Zissener, that our group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, is in favour of this report provided that the principle of subsidiarity is respected. I believe that participation and information for young people is an issue of the utmost importance and I have always said, since I joined this Parliament, that it is the young who are important, not those of us who are not so young, because they are the future of Europe and it is in them that we must invest and apply all our efforts. I have a lot of contact with young people and I truly believe that they are much more receptive than adults or the elderly. We must take advantage of this situation. According to the new poll by the Eurobarometer for the coming European Parliament elections, an average of just 30% of the population is expected to vote. This seems to me a ridiculously low figure and we must make a great effort to increase it. It is not enough for all of us to sit here saying how very worried we are; we must really prove this through action. It is furthermore clear that we are doing something wrong. I will tell you an anecdote, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a situation in which I was involved right here this very afternoon. You are all perfectly aware that 2004 is the European year of education through sport and, although it is directed at all European citizens, it is in particular directed at young people. Nevertheless, this afternoon I went to see a visiting group of young Spanish students from the south of Spain, from Andalusia, from my region, and in the brief chat I had with them I asked them whether any of them could tell me what European year 2004 was. Not one of them – not one of the 30 young people in the room – could answer me. When I told them, they were rather surprised because they all realised it was something directed particularly at them. This is a sign that perhaps we are doing something wrong and we must correct it as soon as possible. To do so we need greater cooperation between youth organisations and public authorities. We must work hard to achieve this and I believe that the report by Mrs Gröner is an initial step towards providing more information for young Europeans. Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, for all the work he has done on this report. I believe it is vitally important to provide greater numbers of citizens with access to culture. Schools, for good reason, must play a very important role in this regard, although I must also say that I completely agree with the Commission that this is not just the responsibility of the schools. It is also the responsibility of families. It is also vital that children have the opportunity to know what surrounds them, both at local and at regional level, at national level and at European level. This is where we have to be much more involved and play a more important role. In Spain we often get the impression that children have little knowledge of their national culture, let alone of European culture. We all know that it is important that children identify with their city, their town, their region and their country, but it also important – without in any way undervaluing what other speakers have said – that children have some sense of identity as Europeans, and this is one of the objectives that we here must fight for. It is difficult for us to feel European if we do not know Europe, and knowing it means being aware of its history, its geography, its economy, its literature, its philosophy, and also its sports. It would be very positive if this could be a common subject in all the schools in all the Member States, and also if we could promote student exchanges more so that what they learn they learn . We often say in my country that a picture is worth more than a thousand words. I would like to say finally that it is essential that the educational services of museums, theatres, libraries, etc. which are available to the public, are available in more than one official language of the European Union. And if possible in several, so that we can all identify with what we are going to read. Of course, all of the things we are talking about tonight cannot be carried out unless there is the Community budget to do so, and this is going to be our first great battle and we must fight for it. – I would like to thank you, Commissioner, for your reply and your efforts with regard to the funding of the World Anti-Doping Agency. In recent days, the sports press in our country has reported that there were problems with the funding from the European Commission. I would like you to clarify whether these problems have been resolved after the meeting of Sports Ministers yesterday in Brussels and whether, if this is not the case, the Commission intends to channel this money towards other means of fighting doping or to stay with the World Anti-Doping Agency. – Thank you for your reply, Commissioner. I would like to congratulate you on the good work you have done, because I believe that introducing sport into the future European Union Treaty is very important. It seemed very difficult, but all indications are that it will be achieved. I am reassured by the information you have given me, because I had seen certain proposals from international sporting organisations which really did not reassure me very much in terms of the inclusion of sport in the future Treaty, amongst other things, because, being rather difficult, we ran the risk of achieving nothing in the end. With regard to combating doping, my feeling is that, since the World Anti-Doping Agency was created, there is almost less control in this area then there was before. I would like to hear the Commissioner’s opinion on this and on whether she believes it is necessary to rather reinvigorate the fight against doping at European level and, if possible, at world level. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the hard work she has done and to say once again that sport has shown itself to be a very effective tool in education. Both in normal situations and in extreme situations, in marginalized areas, when there is a need for integration, amongst many others. Furthermore, it is a great tool for educating on issues such as the environment, food, health, teamwork etc. We should take the greatest possible advantage of this. We must take advantage of the fact that 2004 is the European Year of Education through Sport in order to demonstrate to the Europeans that we in the European Union are also concerned about sport and that we attach much importance, for example – since I do not want to give an interminable list – on the benefits which it brings for health, for the integration of people in our Europe and for the fight against xenophobia. We must also take advantage of the possible impact of 2004 to demonstrate that it is entirely compatible to work for sport in the 15 Member States – or 25, when enlargement takes place – and also at Community level, at the same time, and that they must not fear that we are going to take over their competences. What we do want is to fill the vacuum left by subsidiarity so that the Europeans can benefit from the numerous positive aspects of sport. I therefore ask that we all make an additional effort so that, in the next review of the Treaty on European Union, an article relating to sport may be included, once and for all, so that the Europeans may see that here, in the European Parliament, in the European Commission and in all the European institutions, we care about sport as an essential tool for improving their quality of life. Mr President, Commissioner, I would also like to congratulate the three rapporteurs, Mrs Pack, Mrs Prets and Mrs Iivari, on the reports we are debating tonight. I will refer firstly to the report on the youth programme and I would like to say that I believe it to be very positive because it proposes, amongst other things, bringing the European Union's institutions closer to young people, and I believe that this is absolutely correct because we must not forget that they are the future of Europe and it is they who must know us best. Furthermore, it is very important that the opinions of these young people can be communicated to all the Members of this House and other people in the European institutions, because when it comes to making decisions it is very important to be aware of those opinions. And providing youth programmes with stability and continuity, provided that the principle of subsidiarity is respected of course, is essential to their smooth operation. With regard to the report on education and training, I would like to say that I completely agree with the constant quest for quality in teaching and education, and I believe it to be wonderful that this is being promoted at European level. But I would like to add, in relation to the three reports in general, that we must attach more importance to education, youth and culture, because although we always say here that they are extremely important issues, the reality is that this view is not then reflected in the European Union's budgets. And if they are not reflected in the budgets, it is very unlikely that our voters will believe us when we say it. – Mr President, I would like to point out that in the next report we are going to vote on – the Ebner report – the Spanish version of paragraph 14 of Recommendation 2 of the Annex does not have the same meaning as the original version. I would therefore like to ask that, when it comes to the vote, we vote on the text of the original version of that paragraph. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, our colleague Mr Perry, and say that I am very pleased that the revision of this directive aims to promote values of public interest, that is, cultural diversity and the right of reply. Above all, moreover, it wishes to promote the development of the European audiovisual industry. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the European audiovisual industry must above all be an industry of quality. As a mother of two small children, I naturally look for children's programmes and cartoons – with a view to finding programmes which do not injure their sensibilities and which are not prejudicial to minors – and I often find that these programmes or cartoons intended for small children are much more violent than anything even I would like to see. I often remember how, as a child, I heard adults talking about how they believed that cartoons such as Bambi or Pinocchio were not suitable for us, but now that kind of thing is by far the most ethical programme we can find. If we want a society free of violence, which is what we all aspire to, we must invest in it. Investing in it means investing in children and young people, who are the future of the European Union. I believe that showing them violence on a daily basis is not the best way to do so. I would therefore insist that the European audiovisual industry must be of high quality, strictly controlled and, above all, must be suited to its intended audience. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs De Sarnez, on the excellent work she has done. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Erasmus report represents a further step forward because, at the moment, although there is free movement of workers, we do not have free movement of students in the European Union. I say this because we must face the fact that students from one country cannot move to another country to continue studying or to work because of differences in school curricula or because their studies or qualifications are not recognised. The  programme is finally going to try to overcome these obstacles, contributing to the development of quality education and allowing freedom of movement within the European area. Furthermore, this is going to contribute to improving two vital aspects for the citizens of the European Union: understanding of our different European cultures and the very important issue of knowledge of languages. With regard to cultures, we must be aware that if we want a united Europe we must invest in it. There is nothing free in this world. And we must reflect this in the budgets of the European Union by investing more in the education and the culture of our young Europeans because, let us not forget, they represent the future of the European Union. With regard to languages, I agree with certain fellow Members that it is essential that the future citizens of the European Union speak one or two languages, apart from their own, so that those people will then be able to move freely from one country to another without having to deal with the obstacle of not being able to speak the languages of other countries. Therefore,  is a great step forward, it takes account of different cultures. The mobility of students will promote understanding between different cultures and improve knowledge of languages; it will prepare citizens to be able to work within a global society; it will create an employment exchange within each institution – this is very important since it will help young people to find their first job, which is always so difficult to do; it will also put the European Union on the map in terms of advanced studies, because certain other countries were ahead of us in this respect. It will also involve the business sector, which I believe is very positive, since many of these young people will later have to start work within the company world. I would therefore like to congratulate the Commission on its initiative and the rapporteur, Mrs De Sarnez, on her excellent report and for all the work she has done so that it can come to fruition. I only hope that the success of the  programme marks the beginning of the success of many more programmes in the future. –  Madam President, I would firstly like to congratulate Mrs Gröner on her excellent work, and also the Commission and, in particular, the Commissioner, for the initiative of this White Paper, which I think in itself is a great success. However, the time has come for us to make a real effort to ensure it is applied in all Member States, given that to not implement it would mean that we would not be able to profit from all the money we have invested in the preparation of this White Paper, which would be truly regrettable. We should not forget that young people are our future, the future of Europe and of a large part of the world, and this project is trying to bring the youth of more than thirty countries closer together. Therefore, we cannot allow the success of this programme to be tarnished by the excessively long periods needed to authorise projects or by delays in payments, although on this point I have to say that I was delighted to hear Mrs Gröner say that this problem is being solved during the course of the programme. We must make sure that Commission reports are clear and coherent, and, more than anything, that each year there is an annual report that covers all the National Youth Agencies. Additionally, administrative costs should not be too high and, lastly, I would like to ask the national governments for assistance in granting visas to those youths from outside the European Union who want to participate in these programmes. –  Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and also the Commission on having been able to overcome the obstacles it always faces so that this Parliament can address issues relating to sport. I would like to emphasise two points on the reasons why I think this report is so important. Firstly, I think that we should not forget that sport is a great educational tool. People have always talked about the qualities of sport – that it teaches us to value striving to succeed, or that it brings people together, for example. A million things I do not intend repeating right now. However, what I do want to say – and if I may be so bold I would like to say I have some experience in this field – is that young people, especially children, do not usually, or would find it difficult, to forget what they have learnt through playing whilst practising sport. Sport has a great educational role in a wide range of fields, especially in areas such as the environment. This is just one of the many areas that can benefit from education through sport. The second point I would like to emphasise is that we should not forget that we are living in a Europe in which differences based on race and culture are growing every day, and that we all have to make an effort to integrate into the European Union. Sport plays a fundamental role in this integration. This would be difficult to achieve with any tool other than sport, and any attempt to do so would entail enormous costs. I hope that 2004, European Year of Education through Sport, will be the driving force we all need to be able to ensure the inclusion in the Treaty of an article that makes specific reference to sport, and for this programme to be the starting point, and only the starting point, of what sport can achieve in the European Union. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to congratulate our colleague Mrs De Sarnez on her excellent work on an issue of such great importance to all Europeans. I am saying nothing new when I tell you that education does not fall within the competence of the Community. Furthermore, in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, of which I am a member, each time we talk about education issues, one of our colleagues takes note of how many times the word ‘subsidiarity’ comes up in the debate. However, one of the fundamental rights of EU citizens is the free movement of persons, a right denied to European citizens insofar as there is no recognition of qualifications that enables citizens to go and work in another EU country. At this very moment, the large number of students on the Erasmus programme who spend a whole year studying in another Member State come back to find that this year abroad has been a waste of time, because it is not recognised in their country of origin. This is a totally unacceptable situation, all the more so because, when faced with this situation, many of these students, instead of going to another EU Member State, prefer to go to the United States or to Canada and spend a year there to master the language. I believe that we should avoid this situation by improving conditions within the European Union. It is very important for students to have the opportunity to spend a year outside their own countries, for the opportunity to live alongside other EU citizens, for the training that this experience provides and for the opportunity this offers them to learn and perfect another European language, which is so important for us as EU citizens. For these reasons, I would like to express my support for Mrs De Sarnez in her call for the creation of a European university label, for improved international student mobility, the promotion of further language learning and, above all, for the harmonisation of higher education that will, without a doubt, have to lead to the recognition of qualifications. Commissioner, I must firstly congratulate you on the promotion of sports issues within the Commission. As you have just said, sport has a very important place in daily life in Europe and must therefore be afforded this same status in the European Parliament, as Mr Prodi said in his inaugural speech. Congratulations are also in order for your work in setting up the World Anti-Doping Agency. However, as a sportswoman, I must also ask that, as well as taking the positive step of imposing strict rules on athletes with regard to doping, we should listen to them and put their interests above economic and business interests. This has not always been the case to date. Furthermore, it seems that the Council wants to eliminate the budget heading on sport at second reading. As a sportswoman, a European citizen and a Member of this House, I must very firmly indicate my disagreement with this Council proposal. Also, what steps is the Commission intending to take to ensure that sport has a budget in the European Union, so that we can work from here for European sport? –  Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Beazley on his report. The dangers children and young people are exposed to today are very different to those we were exposed to at that age. TV and the Internet have undoubtedly contributed to this, to a large extent, because they fill youngsters’ heads with ideas that have very little to do with reality. A short time ago, a study was published in a Spanish newspaper, which stated that young people seeing, for example, a person throw themselves off the fourth floor of a building and yet run away unharmed or a person stop a speeding bullet with their bare hands without suffering any ill effects, contributes to many young people being unaware of the real danger of such situations. It is thought, furthermore, that such images put too many ideas in their heads and that this is, unfortunately, the cause of the increase in violence amongst young people and even children. Having said this, I would like to express my total support for the rapporteur when he calls on Member States to classify video games using self-regulatory mechanisms set up by the industry, and for them to establish ‘abuse departments’. I would also like, of course, to congratulate the Commission on its intention to carry out a study on the classification of films distributed to cinemas, shown on TV, and available on DVD or video. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be aware that we cannot expect to have a world without violence when the adults of the future spend their time watching cartoons, films and news stories that are of an increasingly violent nature. Mr President, sport is not just about performance, competitions and elite sportspeople; it is also about developing a sense of community and a common purpose; it is about humanity itself. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not my words. They are the words of the United Nations Organisation, the UN. I fully support them, however, and I also fully support the idea that this Parliament should back the Olympic truce. What does seem to me to be important is that sport should not be politicised. As far as possible, sport must be kept outside of politics and must serve as a tool for constructing, never for destroying. Sport must be a tool for promoting peace and understanding. With regard to the Olympic truce, we are not talking about anything new. There have been Olympic truces every two years, for the summer games and for the winter games, for many years, and at the end of last year the United Nations adopted a resolution urging its Member States to observe the Olympic truce. I am in favour of it, as is the Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We do, however, want it to be a contribution from the world of sport to the rest of the world. We do not want any political party to try to gain electoral advantage or to try to politicise this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, in the real world there are conflicts and wars. In the world of sport there are games and competitions. In the real world there are armed forces. In the world of sport there are teams. In the real world there are laws. In the world of sport we swap them for rules of play. In the real world there are neutral parties. In the world of sport we have referees. And in the real world, regrettably, there are many deaths, and we want to help to preserve life by means of the world of sport, and this must be the world of sport’s contribution to society. –  Mr President, I should firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, our fellow MEP Mr Mauro. I remember the time 20 or 30 years ago when we were asked at school to outline what we thought the twenty-first century would be like, and we all imagined Martians, UFOs and flying saucers and ultra-modern trains and cars, including electric cars, yet no one was able to guess what would be the real revolution of this century: the advances in information and communications technology. Even though it is very difficult to keep up with changes that are taking place at such a dizzying pace, we are obliged to ensure that the citizens of the European Union, especially children and young people, are able to be educated in current technology. This presupposes a cost, since they need computers, multi-media equipment, Internet connections, plus one other very important thing, namely qualified teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot skimp on matters of such vital importance. We need to bear in mind that if, tomorrow when they have reached adulthood, the children of today are unable to use the new technologies, they will be almost like children of our own time who are illiterate, and that is something we cannot allow. By that, I mean I am totally in agreement with the rapporteur that it is necessary, as a priority, to train teachers to be able to give classes in new technologies. I also entirely agree with him that the budget should be more than the EUR 36 million proposed by the European Commission, since it would be truly absurd to spend more money on the preparatory action for a programme than on the programme itself. I also wish to support e-twinning of European schools since that seems to me to be an excellent way of bringing about cooperation between schools from every corner of Europe. What is more, it will help us promote intercultural dialogue and language learning and will also facilitate exchanges between children who have got to know each other through the new technologies and who would like to meet face to face. – Commissioner, I believe that we all agree on the importance of sport, its specific characteristics, its social function and the many areas in which we use it in the fight against racism and xenophobia. It serves to bring people together because of the enjoyment it gives, of course, but also because of its educational role in relation to our young people. Since we are very clear about this, both in Parliament as well as in the Commission – as the Commissioner has demonstrated on many occasions in her work in favour of sport – I would like her to continue working and convincing people so that sport may be included in one way or another in the Treaties and, thereby, we will be able to work for sport, in this Parliament and in the Commission, and we will have specific budgets for it. – Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for all his work and, above all, for his great willingness to seek solutions to possible problems. Spain is a country with great wealth when it comes to languages, and there are many regions or Autonomous Communities in which Castilian is co-official – as the official language of the Spanish State – with another language, such as Catalan or Basque, amongst others. Above all, moreover, I must say that we feel very proud of this. We in the People's Party always try to ensure that one of these co-official languages does not thrive to the detriment of another, for the good of our citizens and in order to have a totally bilingual population. We in Spain already channel enough money towards the promotion of languages and, for this reason, we do not agree with channelling more Community budget for this purpose, bearing in mind all the existing needs at European level. We believe that certain points in this report – and we agree with its general basis – do not entirely respect the principle of subsidiarity and even violate the principle of proportionality and Community legislation. We have full confidence, however, that, this being the case, the European Commission will play its role as guardian of the Treaties and put right anything which is not correct in the report. – Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work she has done and also the Commission on such an appropriate initiative. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight three aspects which seem to me very important. The first is the importance of the audiovisual sector in promoting sport. We must not forget that sport contributes to forging an identity and bringing people together, as well as uniting sportspeople and spectators by offering the latter the opportunity to identify with their nation. Furthermore, sport is one of the fields of activity which most affects and touches on the citizens of the European Union regardless of their age or social origin, and therefore sport cannot and must not be discriminatory and all the citizens of the European Union must be able to see sporting events. They must not be a privilege for the few, since these events are of great importance to our society. The second issue is the need to control advertising slots, and I therefore fully support the rapporteur when she backs the Commission’s strategy of carrying out a study on the repercussions of television advertising and TV shopping techniques on minors. And the third issue I would like to highlight is my total support for the rapporteur’s request that the Member States strengthen dialogue and cooperation on all issues relating to the protection of minors and young people. We cannot aspire to a world without violence when our future adults spend the day watching increasingly violent animated cartoons, films and news items. –  Madam President, I would firstly like to make an observation with regard to all the issues we deal with in the parliamentary committee which I belong to, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport. Less than 1% of the Community budget is dedicated to all of these areas, which leads me to believe that they are not one of Parliament’s greatest priorities, given that such a small proportion of the budget is dedicated to them. We hope that this situation will change in the near future. Secondly, I would like to say that just a few months ago I attended a meeting, in the in Madrid, attended by cultural leaders from the Member States, such as the directors of national museums, and I am sorry to say that they were all fairly disgruntled with the Culture 2000 programme. Many of them said that they thought it was a backward step in relation to the previous programmes, Ariadna and Raphael, and that given the expenditure on the bureaucratic formalities necessary to request financial assistance, that assistance did not pay at the end of the day. Generally speaking, they expressed the feeling of being somewhat deceived. I feel that we need to try to distribute the available funds so as to create more support than discontent, and I feel that this is very important for the image of culture at the European level. I think it is important that we simplify bureaucracy, because everyone agrees that this was a great obstacle. We also need to make sure that there are no delays in payments, because many beneficiaries cannot cope with such delays. It is also important for us to ensure that projects are not rejected for purely formal reasons, and that we have to provide opportunities for small structures, another issue on which there were complaints.