EN
. – Mr President, every year the European Parliament presents a report on the activities of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly. Since 2000, however, the Cotonou Agreement has brought about a new context that profoundly changes the very nature of this report. The Cotonou Agreement made profound changes to the cooperation objectives, with the new goal being a renewed partnership that is more balanced and more effective. This means that there have to be changes in the JPA’s modus operandi. More than just changes in the modus operandi, it requires a real cultural change. Where are we in this process? The Joint Parliamentary Assembly is at a watershed. After 2000, which had raised great hopes of a new era in relations between the EU and ACP States, 2001 did not fulfil all its promise. The working group did undertake a massive adaptation of its working methods, but many delays and a great deal of resistance hindered progress. Here are three examples of this: firstly, the European States’ inertia in the ratification process. Only three countries have ratified the agreement: Denmark, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and us, the European Union. Although we are aware that the procedures are long in many European countries, this sends out a political message and a negative signal to the ACP countries. All European Member States must ratify the agreement before the end of 2002. The second example is the untimely use of voting by separate college in the Assembly. This is detrimental to its parliamentary nature. I propose limited use, and in particular I propose a moratorium on its use among Europeans. The question of voting rights is fundamental, and the debate over Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure has led to numerous controversies. The principle of representation by parliamentarians alone must be forcefully reaffirmed, and the compromise drawn up by the Working Group, which specifies limited cases of difficulty in which voting by non-parliamentarians is permitted, is the final position that we can accept here. We need to get through this bad patch. This report proposes a few paths that we could take. I will only mention some of them, such as a specific instrument to contribute to democracy: the democratic bonus, financial or material aid to improve the functioning of democratically elected parliaments and a better representation of the opposition. For the ACP countries, the principle is one country, one vote. In fact, each country speaks with just one voice. It is impossible for opposition Members of Parliament in the ACP countries to make themselves heard. In order to remedy this, we need to have an open debate, without taboos, on the re-weighting of votes. For now, the proposal of three delegates per country, put forward by my fellow Member Mr Martinez last year, is heading in the right direction. As a result there is the question of funding. Following a rigorous financial assessment by the Commission, a special fund would be reserved to cover the travel costs of ACP parliamentary representatives only and for the organisation of sessions. From a more general point of view, the JPA is the only assembly that has no budget. It should be given new powers to enable it to exercise financial and political control over the funding of cooperation. Finally, my last point: the European Parliament should devote special attention to the work of the ACP countries in a comprehensive debate, at least once a year, here in the European Parliament, on the different aspects of cooperation. .– Driven by the socialist and social democrat political family, the notion of services of general economic interest was enshrined in the Treaty of Amsterdam (Article 16) at the heart of the principles on which the European Union is based. As a step further, the European socialists resolutely committed themselves to defending and promoting services of general interest, as a fundamental aspect of our shared values and of our European social model. Upon this concept, democratic and social guarantees for European citizens are founded: equal access for all, information, consultation and participation for users and employees, quality and universality and financial viability while respecting employment and collective guarantees. Our battle lines have been drawn; our demands are clear. We are asking for the missions, organisation and financing arrangements for services of general interest to be guaranteed and laid down in a framework directive, a commitment made by Parliament as a whole in November 2001 when it adopted the Langen report. We want a democratic and pluralist evaluation of the social consequences of free competition to be conducted before there is any further liberalisation. This is an urgent issue judging by the flurry of texts submitted to the European Parliament in order to speed up liberalisation all over the place, in particular in transport, postal services, energy, the water market, waste treatment. . – The MEDA programme is the mainstay of financial cooperation under the Euro-Mediterranean partnership set up in 1995. But the procedures are unwieldy and not transparent enough, the specification for the implementation of projects, which are too long… Reform is urgently needed because these problems are throwing the entire process into disrepute and are seen as bad signs by the people of the Mediterranean, who did, in fact, originally welcome the Barcelona process with a certain degree of enthusiasm. The Commission text is a good text because its purpose is to help simplify current regulations. But we need more if we want to give our Mediterranean policy a new lease of life: we need to involve the people more by supporting decentralised cooperation, we need to improve the way in which the cultural and human dimensions are integrated, open the free trade zone to agricultural produce and monitor and support fundamental freedoms. I fully support the rapporteur’s proposal that an annual report be drafted on human rights in the Mediterranean countries. We have already pronounced ourselves twice on the draft directive for the liberalisation of port services (cargo-handling, passenger services, pilotage, mooring and towing). Hugely important interests are at stake: economic and financial interests, but above all social and human interests. Since our first vote on this matter, almost three years ago to the day, the French Socialists have fought to safeguard the public-service character of port services. After several amendment battles, we achieved significant progress, particularly in securing the exclusion of pilotage and mooring services from the scope of the directive. Having been unable to achieve the same success on cargo-handling, a service provided by dockers, by the time the second reading came round on 11 March 2003, we voted against a draft that is an integral part of the policy of relentlessly liberalising all modes of transport in Europe. Today, the draft on which we are called to pass judgment, in the form of the joint text resulting from the conciliation procedure between Parliament and the Commission, represents a very distinct regression on all the points we fought to improve. As it stands, this text is unacceptable. –  Commissioner, last November, you yourself said in the French press that the objective of the Barcelona Process was both simple and ambitious, i.e. an area at peace, enjoying shared prosperity, promoting the emergence of civil society while respecting human rights and ensuring the mutual understanding of different civilisations. These three points should guide us in our relations with our Mediterranean partners. It was in this spirit that the Group of the Party of European Socialists collaborated with the rapporteurs, Mrs Morgantini and our friend, Mr Naïr. For we must now set priorities that have genuine measurable objectives and we must allocate adequate resources to achieving them. We know that these priorities are, first of all, to make progress along the difficult road that is the Charter for Peace and Stability. The French Presidency tried to do this against an extremely complicated background and the Swedish Presidency, I am sure, will continue along this route. We would hope so and we shall all keep an eye on this. The Barcelona Process should not be held hostage to the Middle East peace process. Quite the opposite; the continuing tensions and the state of war between the Israeli and Palestinian people serve only to highlight the current need to improve dialogue between the countries bordering the Mediterranean. We should also step up the negotiation, ratification and implementation of the association agreements, since this contract formalises the commitments of both parties and ensures an effective partnership. We are delighted to learn that an agreement has just been signed with Egypt. Furthermore, we cannot continue investing just one euro in the South for every 10 we invest in the East. This imbalance becomes more explosive with every passing day. Firstly, of course, we must bring the reform of the MEDA financial instrument to a successful conclusion so as to improve the quality and speed of its implementation. Finally, we call for decentralised cooperation to be relaunched on new bases, so that we can fulfil the hopes and respond to the profusion of initiatives from civil society, both European and Mediterranean, because the partnership will be worth nothing if it is not a partnership of peoples. Indeed, I was interested to note that the Swedish Presidency intends to focus on the cultural, social and human aspects of the Mediterranean partnership. Commissioner, our relationship with the South needs the input of more than just words and political symbols. Our partners are expecting practical steps to be taken, as Mr Naïr stressed in his report, which I thought was particularly valuable. –  Mr President, the European Parliament has already issued two resolutions on the question of child soldiers, one in 1999 and one in 2000. Why use the procedure for urgent cases, then, to include on the agenda a recommendation for a new resolution, one which goes further, of course, since it extends not only to child soldiers, but to all forms of trafficking in children? The reason is that the problem is still growing and the European Union is not showing enough determination. Three hundred thousand children, boys and girls, are enlisted in combat units in more than 30 countries. Every year, 1.2 million children are victims of a traffic which has now become a rapidly-expanding ‘industry’, worth almost EUR 3 billion per year. After drugs and small arms trafficking, it is the third most lucrative criminal activity in the world. The fight against this scourge – beyond comprehension in the twenty-first century – should be a cornerstone of European Union development policy. It is a sad fact that this is not the case. On the world stage, however, more and more action is being taken, as demonstrated by the coming into force, in 2002, of the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. We request that the Council encourage Member States to ratify this protocol with immediate effect, for too few of them have done so up to now. We also request that children’s rights become a political priority for the Union, to be reflected in budgetary decisions involving the allocation of sufficient resources to a specific heading, with a view to improving their effectiveness and raising their profile. This priority is also to be reflected in a common strategy. The Council, of course, adopted such a common strategy in principle on 10 December 2002, but the final document should appear and come into force without delay. Our motion for a resolution suggests several courses of action in this connection. These include the appointment of a high-level representative for children’s rights; a common policy focusing on preventive measures; support and protection of victims; closer cooperation with the countries of origin; and international arrest warrants against the organisers and perpetrators of this unspeakable traffic. – For more than thirty years, the European Union has worked hard to construct its special partnership agreement with the African, Caribbean and Pacific States. It was within this policy of openness and solidarity that the common organisation of the market in bananas was established to guarantee access to the European market for a certain percentage of the bananas produced by ACP countries, which include some of the poorest countries in the world. This measure was opposed from the outset by the major, multinational banana companies, which are very competitive, but this often entails exploitation verging on slavery! Owing to political pressure, economic sanctions, compromises and concessions, the entire quantity protection system will be abolished from 2006 and will be replaced by a protection system based solely on tariffs. As yet, no one knows how effective this will be in protecting the interests of the traditional ACP banana producers. The agreement reached in April 2001 did of course end the trade war that had poisoned our relationship with the United States for almost ten years. But some of the measures genuinely are a bitter pill for the ACP countries to swallow. These include the abolition, in 2006, of quota protection guaranteeing traditional producers access to the European market and a 100 000-tonne reduction in the guaranteed production quantity from January 2002. In addition, they are affected by the deficiencies and delays of the financial and technical assistance measures established to help ACP producers adapt to the new market conditions. They are still waiting to receive their payments. Michel Dary’s report, that we will reach a decision on today, proposes that we offer the ACP countries a number of safety nets to be used during the transition period, before they step out into the unknown when the common organisation of the market in bananas ceases to exist. . – The draft report presented to us is unacceptable in its current form. First, because it provides a confused response to the fundamental questions of competition between European ports and financial transparency in the allocation of grants to these ports. But also, and in particular, because the indiscriminate liberalisation of all port services constitutes a dangerous threat to safety, the environment and employment. To safety, because opening up to competition highly specialised services such as piloting, requiring specific skills adapted to each port, carries the potential risk of seriously jeopardising the safety conditions in which these professions are exercised. To the environment, because liberalisation does not allow it to be taken into consideration sufficiently. On these two points, the report and the directive contradict the ‘maritime safety’ and environmental risk reduction reinforcement policy launched by the European Union following the Erika disaster. Lastly, such liberalisation poses a threat to employment, because opening up port services to competition, in particular those employing the most staff, such as freight handling, carries the risk of plunging the European ports into a dangerous downward spiral with regard to social benefits. This tendency would be unsustainable in areas that are often vulnerable or in labour market areas that are already severely affected by industrial restructuring. I cannot, therefore, approve all the provisions that would lead to port services being opened up to competition with no compensation or safeguards. That is why I voted for all the amendments aiming to exclude port services such as piloting, mooring and freight handling from the scope of the liberalisation proposed by the directive. As these amendments have not been adopted, I voted against the report. . –  Mr President, Mr Bourlanges, the proposal you put forward is, shall we say, reasonable. It makes it possible to release EUR 115 million to finance Kosovo, while waiting for a realistic evaluation of requirements, covered, if necessary, by the vote on a SAB next spring, and this is no bad thing. We have also had to effect savings of EUR 150 million, i.e. further budget cuts to the lines of heading 4 in order to finance new priorities: Timor, Turkey and the Fisheries Agreement with Morocco, which are not in the exclusive domain of external action of the Union, but which we have accepted. It must be pointed out that these are heavy sacrifices, especially since this proposal envisages taking EUR 35 million out of ECHO appropriations, a deduction which is presented as a loan, one whose repayment seems highly uncertain. Nonetheless we shall be fighting for that. So, of course I support your proposal but, as you will understand, I support it without enthusiasm. I simply wish to express, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, my concern regarding this budget 2000 which, if the financial perspectives are not reviewed, places the burden of all the sacrifices on the poorest countries. We join forces, however, with the position of the Committee on Budgets and I wish my fellow Members on that committee good luck in the forthcoming three-way dialogue. Drinking, eating, washing, farming – water irrigates each act of our daily life and we treat it, wrongly, as an unfailing and inexhaustible resource. A simple gesture such as turning on a tap seems to bring water straight from the source. But the source is threatening to run dry. Scientific studies are now no more than a formality: water will be the main resource at stake in years to come, starting tomorrow. But tomorrow will be too late. We have to lay down the rules of play today, before we all lose. In adopting the water directive on Wednesday 15 February, the European Parliament confirmed its wish to protect surface water, coastal wasters, inland waters and groundwater. Europe now has a framework which will allow it to prevent any deterioration in the quality of water, promote its sustainable use, protect eco-systems, help fight floods and droughts and eliminate the disposal of dangerous substances. We have thrown water a life-belt. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, we have been waiting for this regulation. It should enable us, at last, to launch the European Union’s action plan on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the countries of the South. This is a matter of urgency, because these diseases continue to kill millions of people every year, essentially in the developing countries, and, as we know, the diseases are in the South and the medicines are in the North. By means of Mr Wijkman’s report, we have to decide on two fundamental public health issues in the countries of the South. First of all, there is the issue of the financial resources which the European Union will be devoting to the fight against these three diseases in the coming years. On this point, the adoption of this regulation is an important step forward, but I should like to think that it is only the first step, because in June 2001, at the United Nations, the international community undertook to achieve, by 2005, the objective of seven to ten billion US dollars of annual expenditure exclusively to combat HIV/AIDS in developing countries. We are therefore a long way from our goal, and if Europe wants to fulfil its obligations, it will have to go beyond the EUR 351 million over four years, which is what the rapporteur is proposing and what we are proposing together with him. The second issue at stake in this regulation is the political support expressed by the European Union for the countries of the South in their struggle to promote public health. On this point, the Committee on Development and Cooperation has done a good job. From now on, this regulation will contain an explicit and unequivocal reference to the Doha declaration on intellectual property, which recognises the specific rights of the countries of the South. It will also contain a reference to the facilitation of access to medicines in developing countries by making those medicines available at the lowest possible prices. However, this political support from the European Union should, above all, be expressed and manifested to the WTO in no uncertain terms. In this respect I deplore the failure of the negotiations of last December on the clarification of Article 31 of the intellectual property agreements. In order to escape from this impasse, the European Union must unreservedly support the proposals of the countries of the South. That is the request, Commissioner, which I am asking you to pass on to Commissioner Lamy. Mr President, since the reunification of Europe is about to become a reality, even though, as we know, there is still much to do, we are witnessing a page of history being written. Now we have the Mediterranean on the next page. To turn the Mediterranean into an integrated whole containing almost 900 million men and women is our challenge for the next 30 years. In order to respond to this new challenge we need genuine ambition and instruments for dialogue. This instrument for political dialogue, which we need, is the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, and the Naples Conference must enshrine its birth, because only political dialogue can forge a genuine balanced, in-depth and lasting partnership. It is for that reason that the Euro-Parliamentary Forum has been in place since 1998. But with its informal configuration, it has remained a passive witness, overly dependent on the ups and downs of international events, and hostage to the conflagration in the Middle East. In Naples, this forum must become a genuine parliamentary assembly in order to acquire a new democratic legitimacy, in order to fulfil its role completely as an instrument of dialogue for peace, stability and regional development. I am convinced that it will be more than that, because it will also be a new departure point for all Euro-Mediterranean relations. This is the opportunity to create a new ambition for the South. The Union appears to have finally realised this, today, by trying to give form to what is known as the concept of neighbourhood. We must not, however, be mistaken in our objective. To distinguish and honour these good neighbours may mean that they will never be part of the family. It is no longer the time for a fool’s bargain for the South. The free trade area and the credo ‘Everything but institutions’, which prevailed until now within the context of Euro-Mediterranean relations, have been left behind. At political level, we must implement the future framework for Euro-Mediterranean relations, a free Union inspired by the Council of Europe, founded upon common objectives and shared values: common security, secularity, the rule of law and democracy. At economic level, we must launch a genuine Marshall plan for the Mediterranean with a view to genuinely establishing this shared prosperity, which was already included in the Barcelona declaration. –  I would like to thank the Commissioner for his very thorough answer and for his interpretation. I think that we are on the same wavelength on this issue. –  Madam President, today, like any other day, more than 8 000 people have died of AIDS for lack of treatment. In Africa, more than 4 million AIDS sufferers are in desperate need of treatment and only 50 000 people have access to it. Moreover, AIDS is not the only scourge overwhelming the countries of the South: tuberculosis is on the increase and kills 2 million people every year; malaria is responsible for between 1 and 2 million deaths every year and affects between 300 and 500 million people. In fact, we have the means to cure these diseases or to significantly reduce the death rate. But the treatment is expensive, too expensive for countries that can only afford to spend derisory sums on their health services, with the result that medicines are for the North and coffins for the South. Fortunately, things are starting to change. Much progress was made in 2003, giving cause for a glimmer of hope: the WHO initiative to provide treatment for 3 million sufferers by 2005; the agreement reached on 30 August 2003 in Geneva by the members of the WHO; the decision of the South African Government to launch a national treatment programme; the efforts to bring down the price of antiretroviral drugs on the world market and the programme of clinical trials in a partnership between Europe and the developing countries, with a budget of EUR 600 million. These initiatives are very encouraging, but they are still far from being enough. The Union itself is being slow to deliver on its financial promises and the Sandbæk report is a timely reminder to the European Union to firm up its commitments, setting it a target that is appropriate to what is at stake. It reminds us that the absolute priority has to be access to medicines for all sufferers, in accordance with the Doha Declaration. The existence of patents should not therefore constitute a barrier to the manufacture or purchase of vital medicines. Furthermore, the report forcibly underlines the fact that the prevention and treatment of transmissible diseases are the concern of everyone, because they constitute a global public good. It sets an ambitious target for the financial contribution of the European Union and its Member States, a target of a billion euros a year. In adopting this report, Europe will reaffirm that it intends to play an important role in the fight against these dreadful diseases. –  Madam President, since the coup d’état on 19 September, the whole of the northern territory of Côte d’Ivoire has been plunged into confused military conflict. Military operations are being carried out even as I speak and fighting is raging in Bouaké, leading us to fear the worst for the civil population caught up in the conflict. Ladies and gentlemen, we fear for the people of Côte d’Ivoire who have been taken hostage by factions and who are paying for this crisis with their freedom and, in some cases, their lives. We fear for Côte d’Ivoire, which is in danger of becoming further removed from the model for which it is so often admired. Today, Côte d’Ivoire and its society are being torn apart, and we fear for Africa and the African people for the whole region may collapse, and this is a region which has already seen too many wars and human tragedies and where armed gangs are rampant and trafficking of all kinds is rife – these are both distressing everyday realities. This is an outcome which does not, in fact, seem too far removed from the current instability in Côte d’Ivoire. If Côte d’Ivoire becomes destabilised, this will lay the foundations for a crisis similar to that in the Great Lakes region or in the Congo, which have for many years been devastating the heart of the continent. We are concerned by this crisis, and we are saddened by it. We are also surprised by it too, however. It is happening at the very time when the efforts made by Laurent Gbagbo’s regime to deal with two of the country’s greatest challenges were paying off. The first challenge is national reconciliation and, to promote this, a broad forum was organised in 2001 and a government of national union was formed, bringing together the major political forces following the elections in July 2002. The next challenge is economic and social revival, promoted through fundamental social reforms such as free schooling or health insurance for all citizens. In order to make further progress on these fronts, however, Côte d’Ivoire needs peace. Europe must exert pressure to bring about a negotiated solution and a peaceful resolution to the crisis. It must make every effort to mediate and must welcome the actions carried out under the aegis of the ECOWAS. These attempts have so far failed, but it is indeed difficult to ask a legitimate government to negotiate as equals with armed rebels. The challenge now is to preserve the unity of the whole territory of Côte d’Ivoire whilst respecting constitutional law. We must be particularly careful to ensure that, if an intervention force is sent to Côte d’Ivoire, this does not lead to a  division of the country. The Socialist Group also supports the idea of sending a parliamentary mission – I am addressing my fellow Members here – to give our support to the democratically elected institutions and to go and meet with the various political forces in Côte d’Ivoire. In order, however, to help democracy take root in Côte d’Ivoire, President Gbagbo must very swiftly take the initiative of launching negotiations with all the political and social forces in his country. Negotiations must, in particular, focus on the constitutional bottlenecks which are acting as a brake, slowing down national reconciliation. The 2000 Constitution does not fulfil this requirement, it does not allow all the different political positions to express themselves and it once again and still prevents Mr Ouatara from standing as presidential candidate. It does not provide for the possibility of dissolving the National Assembly in the event of major crises, and this may leave the way open for an extremely violent political reaction. Lastly, President Gbagbo must resume dialogue in order to pursue an unqualified and unambiguous effort to achieve national reconciliation, which is essential for a country that has been torn apart for many years by the manipulation of the concept of Ivorian birthright, almost 30% of whose population is made up of foreigners. In this respect, the call for the expulsion of 500 000 inhabitants originating from Burkina Faso, broadcast last Sunday on Côte d’Ivoire national television, is an unacceptable abuse and must be vehemently condemned, in the same way that the attacks on foreigners who live in the country must be vehemently condemned. Commissioner Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, today, Côte d’Ivoire and the legitimate government of Laurent Gbagbo need the firm support of the European Union that you have outlined and which I shall promote very firmly and in every possible way. . The South of France has just suffered an unprecedented natural disaster. We are now beginning to assess the scale of the damage, which has been considerable. Seven people have died and around 100 000 have been affected by the disaster. Tens of thousands have been forced to shelter in gymnasiums or other makeshift accommodation. In the town of Arles alone, a third of the population has been evacuated. Thousands of jobs have disappeared under the water. Hundreds of flooded businesses have had to close their doors, plunging their employees into the uncertainty of temporary unemployment. The Camargue, with its fragile eco-system, is completely submerged: 250 km of dykes have been damaged, 560 hectares of farmland are under water, over 1000 animals have drowned, the entire rice sector has been destroyed. Damage in the region has been put at more than EUR one billion. Europe must show solidarity, in accordance with Article 2 of the regulation establishing the Solidarity Fund. This is an unprecedented disaster, as the region has fallen victim to the River Rhône’s ‘centennial flood’ – the most serious for a century. On behalf of the French Socialists, I ask the EU to make funds quickly available. Those stricken in the Rhône Delta expect nothing less. .The European directive on quality and safety standards for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of blood should be modified in order to increase protection of donors and recipients. The safety of recipients should be further guaranteed, both through the traceability of the whole transfusion network and by guaranteeing highly qualified staff in all blood transfusion establishments in Europe. Greater safety increases confidence in the supply system, which, as a result, encourages donors to give blood. This directive, however, should also highlight principles. Blood is not a commodity. Moreover, the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights states that it is forbidden to use the human body for profit. This is why we need to clearly affirm the principle that the service should be free. By donating blood, citizens are making an act of solidarity. This means, as the European socialists have maintained, that blood components should only be taken from voluntary donors. – Ladies and gentlemen, we should indeed welcome the Khanbhai report, which is the result of some excellent work in reaching a compromise between the various political groups and the rapporteur, and I would like to thank him for his effort. This report reflects a twofold realisation, both of the extent of the scourge and that of the financial and human resources necessary to combat it. It enables us to take several steps forward in a debate that is essential for the very survival of part of the world. It also clarifies Parliament’s position on many crucial points such as the need to significantly increase resources assigned to improving health systems and to fighting communicable diseases in developing countries, the will to overcome the opposition between prevention and treatment, which are two essential and complementary aspects of the fight against disease, and the emergence of a new concept of public health as a global public asset. In addition, it clarifies and provides an interpretation of the safeguard clauses in the TRIPS agreement on intellectual property. It also confirms the fact that the issue of the price of drugs is at the heart of the debates on access to treatment and the importance of research and development and, above all, it stresses the need to focus efforts on diseases that particularly affect the South, as well as forgotten illnesses. The European Parliament’s position is therefore now clear and coherent, but, above all, it is just and fair. There is the feeling that we are finally beginning to ask the right questions and, from now on, we need to provide the right answers. It is now time, ladies and gentlemen, to make the move from good intentions to positive action. In the immediate future, there are two main areas of action in which we need to intervene. The first involves interpreting agreements on intellectual property in a way that is more favourable to the health of the developing world. Public opinion is ready for such progress to take place and the withdrawal of actions brought against South Africa and Brazil has created a very distinct psychological climate. Many ambiguities still remain, however. The fourth WTO ministerial conference in Doha should enable us to go further in officially and formally proposing guarantees on recourse to all the components of the safeguard clauses established in the TRIPS agreement, confirming in particular that in the case of compulsory licences, drugs can be produced in third countries. The second front on which we should expect short-term progress is the global AIDS and health fund that was launched in New York and Genoa. An interim working group has been implemented. It will make proposals in the next few days. The principle is therefore now established. We must insist, however, that this fund should start to operate in the coming weeks so that treatment gets to patients as soon as possible, and we must ensure that its statute and procedures are fair. What does this mean in specific terms? It means that the fund should be operational before 15 December, the deadline, so that the Commission can make its contribution to the 2001 budget, and so that the definitive structure of these funds and the composition of its statutory bodies respect the rule of equality between representatives from Northern and Southern States and also between the NGOs from these two areas. It also involves, and I will end here, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, clarifications on the contribution of the European Union. The Union committed itself in Genoa, as stated by Mr Prodi, to allocating a budget of EUR 120 million to the global health fund. This amount is not currently entered under any budget item. The Commission must confirm to us today that this amount will not come from and will not be deducted from other funds earmarked for development and that it is indeed an annual contribution that will be entered in the budget on the specific line from 2002. I thank you in advance for including these particular details. –  Madam President, in my view an important step was taken at the Durban International Aids Conference: although prevention also remains essential for combating this plague, the issue of access to treatment was finally placed at the heart of the debate. Durban made it possible to approach the essential issues – the price of medication and the development of generic medication – frankly, and move forward in our thinking about intellectual property rights and compulsory licences. It was about time. The conduct of the big drug companies has too often contributed to imposing a two-speed treatment system: medication for the rich and despair for the poor. That is why the initiative from the pharmaceutical laboratories on the price of medication, launched on the fringe of the conference, constitutes an encouraging beginning, as long as it was not just announced for effect. The G8 Summit at Okinawa has also made it possible to set the seal on the commitment of the rich countries and set targets to lessen the ravages of Aids in Africa over the next ten years, but, unfortunately, the issue of resources was not really dealt with. This very day a meeting should be taking place in New York, under the auspices of UNDP, between public and private operators to sign up to and finance the Aids action plan for South Africa. There really is a feeling that people are finally beginning to ask the right questions. Now perhaps the right answers should be provided. Obviously the European Union is not standing on the sidelines of this mobilisation but I think we should step up a gear, and I heard the French Presidency express that hope. We eagerly await the Commission’s communication, with guidelines and proposals for combating the major transmissible diseases: Aids of course, but also malaria and tuberculosis. Aware that the time has come not just for reflection but for action too, we expect really concrete proposals permitting very rapid progress. I am thinking, in particular, of the debates on industrial property rights and compulsory licences. I am thinking of the development of the International Therapeutic Solidarity Fund launched to raise international funds to give poor countries access to the new therapies, which must expand. I am thinking of the organisation of an international conference involving poor countries, the pharmaceutical industries, the NGOs and the donors. Perhaps the round table of 28 September, organised by the Commission, in liaison with WHO and UNAIDS could be the first stage in setting that up? .There are questions that will not go away; nor will the historic wounds that remain open in the Armenian community throughout the world. In its resolution in June 1987, the European Parliament asked Turkey to have the courage to look at its past with open eyes in order to be able to look towards the future. Democracy is guaranteed by historical truth, which cannot be bought or sold and cannot suffer at the hands of special interests, be they financial or economic. What is at issue today is not recognition of the Armenian genocide's reality, as this House has already had occasion to declare that in 1987. In asking that the Lamassoure Report should make reference to the genocide, I was not seeking to revive ancestral hatreds or to blow on the embers of intolerance, but to echo the legitimate concerns expressed in Armenian communities. The children of Armenia who were exiled to our countries at the beginning of the century expect today an act of justice. They want a ‘moral resting-place’ for their ancestors. Remembrance is an even more pressing duty at this time when the last witnesses to the exile, the last to escape the carnage, are themselves quietly dying away. I am convinced that joining the EU implies adherence to the fundamental principles in accordance with which it was created; democracy, respect for human rights and for the rights of minorities. Such a step invites each one of the candidate countries to take up the burden of its past in order to be able to make its peace with its own history. I regret that this House has not followed me in doing this. –  Mr President, we all want to see the end of the ‘banana war’, but the immense complexity of the problem deceives no one. Clearly the banana has become a political issue, with the dispute symbolising a certain conception of world trade, of a Europe which stands by and defends its decisions, its specific political nature and its commitment to the countries of the South.  So on this issue – I know – the Commission’s task is not an easy one. It is torn between contradictory positions and I understand the difficulties encountered in trying to reconcile the various interests. But while I share the desire to put an end to a trade war which is poisoning transatlantic relations, this cannot be done at any price, abandoning without compensation the principles of justice and solidarity which guide the action of the European Union. I, for one – and there are many in this Parliament who feel the same – refuse to see Europe dictated to, even indirectly, by a handful of multinationals with colonialist attitudes and anachronistic social behaviour. I am sorry, too, that we have not fought for the retention of a specific quota for the ACP countries which alone guaranteed them access to the market. But the rapporteur’s proposal is satisfactory because it defends the quota system and rejects any automatic move to an exclusively tariff-based regime. So I thank him and I also thank Mr Fernández Martín for putting the committee’s point of view. Of course, the ACP countries know they must adapt to world trade. But let us give them time. Let us give them enough time, let us give them the means to produce their plants themselves, let us help them build their greenhouses. Let us encourage organic farming and, in ten years, believe me, the price of African bananas will have fallen to the level of dollar bananas. They will then become competitive. If we impose the brutality of an exclusively tariff-based regime too rapidly, bananas are going to taste incredibly bitter to thousands of small African producers. –  Mr President, for a long time Côte d'Ivoire stood out as a pillar of stability and relative prosperity in the tormented life of West Africa. That is why we were so disturbed and sad to see the slow political, economic and human ruination of this country, orchestrated by the military junta of General Gueï. In order to hold on to power, General Gueï hijacked the constitution adopted by the people of Côte d'Ivoire for his sole benefit and used it as a means of excluding his political opponents. In order to hold on to power, he did not hesitate to exploit the bitter debate on Ivoirian nationality, sparking an explosion of xenophobia: hatred of others, of foreigners, whether from Burkina Faso or Mali, even though so many of them have lived and worked in the country for many years. In this way he has brought Côte d'Ivoire to the brink of civil and ethnic war. But the Ivoirian people did not allow the junta to play their murderous game to the bitter end: they forced the tyrant to flee and, by electing a long-standing opponent, Laurent Gbagbo, to rule the country, they brought Côte d'Ivoire back onto the track of democracy. Now this process needs to be confirmed rapidly by the organisation of free, transparent and pluralist legislative elections in which all the political forces can take part. At least, that is what both the political leaders and the people are calling for today. The political forces of Côte d’Ivoire have already shown their sense of responsibility by playing the card of appeasement, of constitutional legality and of national reconciliation for some weeks past. We must take note of this return to a democratic process that may indeed be incomplete, but that we must continue to support. I believe that will also contribute to the stability of the entire region, for West Africa is going through a highly vulnerable period from that point of view. The European Union must therefore accompany Côte d'Ivoire along the road it has itself chosen: the road towards a return to constitutional legality, to civil peace, to economic and social progress, while giving material and financial support to the organisation of the legislative elections scheduled for 10 December this year and, of course, ensuring that they are fair and pluralist. It must also continue to cooperate with Côte d'Ivoire, so as to help it find the most appropriate solutions to the social crisis in urban areas and to tensions related to land in rural areas. That is precisely the point of our resolution. – Ladies and gentlemen, today’s debate is not about reopening old, historical wounds, which have not completely healed. It is not about rekindling ancestral hatreds or blowing on the embers of intolerance, as I have heard talk of in this Chamber. What is at stake is not even the acknowledgement of the reality of Armenian genocide, since this House has already had occasion to express its views on this, most notably in its resolution of June 1987. What the Members of the European Parliament asked of Turkey in 1987 was to have the courage to open its eyes to the past so as to be able to look to the future. Historical truth is the guarantor of democracy. It must not and cannot suffer specific financial or economic interests, be they of individuals, governments or states. Truth and remembrance are not negotiable. It is enough to remember what happened in Germany, which recognised the Shoah and which, after the Second World War, became a major democratic country. This is what we are hoping for once again today when we call upon the Morillon report to make reference to genocide. Acknowledging genocide must be a call for dialogue to be established between the new Armenian and Turkish generations. The whole of the Armenian community and the Armenian children who fled into exile at the beginning of the century to the countries of Europe are today waiting for justice to be done. They want to offer a memorial to their ancestors, the victims of genocide. At a time when the last witnesses of exile, the last survivors of the carnage, are quietly passing away, the work and the duty of remembrance are even more necessary. But beyond the duty of remembrance which we must demand from all democracies, and the people of Europe know just how difficult and painful a task this is, so difficult in fact that some European countries have not yet completed it, it is incumbent on us to ensure that such acts of barbarism, which destroyed lives for ethnic, religious and cultural reasons and which offend the conscience of the world, never recur. Europe must spread this message. . –  Mr President, the budget debate is always a key moment to express one’s political will. For the European Union, it represents the opportunity to reassert its firm moral duty to extend a helping hand to the developing world; the opportunity to show how much we wish to combat poverty, injustice, discrimination of all kinds, the lack of democracy, violation of human rights and attacks on freedom. In short, it is the opportunity to show our determination to pursue our development policy, even if we must review it here and there in order to make it more efficient and more transparent. From this point of view, the draft budget for the year 2000 gives rise to serious concern. In saying that, I am of course referring to Category 4, which Mr Bourlanges has just discussed at length. In addition to the fact that first the Commission and then the Council have proposed very significant reductions in all the budget lines concerned, we now have to respond to a great number of tragic situations throughout the world. We have to respond to the tragic situation of the Kosovar people and commit considerable resources to the reconstruction of the country. But we must do this by freeing up new appropriations and not by amputating all the Category 4 lines by approximately 10%. We cannot make the very poorest people pay for the operations of the European Union. We cannot set the poor of one country against the poor of another country or distinguish between good victims and bad victims, and I am very sorry that the Council to some extent presented the problem in these terms, by setting different cases of poverty against each other. We need sufficient appropriations to finance reconstruction in Kosovo, of course, but also for East Timor. And, believe me, ECHO appropriations will not be enough to fund everything, no more than transferring appropriations from one line to the next according to current priorities. We also have to finance the fisheries agreement with Morocco, which is a priority for the European Parliament. We must therefore invite the Council to review the Financial Perspective for our external policies in Category 4. I believe that Parliament is fairly unanimous on this point. I must also thank, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, both the general rapporteur for the budget, Mr Bourlanges, and the Committee on Budgets, as well as its chairman, Mr Wynn, for the stance they have taken on this matter. Nonetheless, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, we have decided to submit three amendments. The first involves the question of gender. Throughout Africa, women are taking action; they are the driving force, the hope of Africa for the next millennium, and we must support this movement. The second amendment concerns the lines of health, reproduction, and the fight against AIDS, which we propose to merge. This merging must not, however, be grounds for a reduction in appropriations. Twenty-five million people in Africa are going to die of AIDS, twenty-five million potential patients, nine tenths of whom, due to lack of scanning and lack of sex education, are unaware of the danger lurking in their body. AIDS will be the next tragedy in Africa. The third amendment which we wish to submit concerns line B7-6000 on the Community contribution to the operations of NGOs. The draft budget envisages a drastic reduction in the appropriations allocated to this line. Mr Bourlanges proposed instead to increase them, and I thank him for this. What we propose is to amend the wording. This is an amendment which does not have financial implications but which is going to enable the Liaison Committee … .–  With Mr Piétrasanta’s report the European Parliament must express an opinion on the state of relations between Europe and its Mediterranean partners. This report raises the fundamental questions underlying the partnership and gives pertinent answers which I support, in particular the need to stress the political dimension of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership in order to foster democratisation and peace, support for Mediterranean civil societies, the systematic inclusion of the human rights issue in follow-up, and the establishment of a genuine Euro-Mediterranean parliamentary assembly at the next EuroMed ministerial conference in Naples in December 2003. I shall vote in favour of this report in order to give strong backing to the inclusion of these objectives in the MEDA programme. But this programme alone is today insufficient to cover relations between the EU and its Mediterranean partners. No additional resources have in fact been provided to this day (for 2003 the MEDA regional funding plan will have EUR 32 million and the ‘Euro-Mediterranean investment and partnership facility’ EUR 25 million), and the discrepancy between Europe’s financial effort for the ten new members and its commitment to the Mediterranean is spectacular, not to say scandalous: EUR 185 of aid per capita for the East, half a euro per head for the Mediterranean. –  Mr President, once again, the House is going to deliver its opinion on the banana issue, and I congratulate Michel Dary on his remarkable work. Today, at the end of negotiations which looked like some sort of mug’s game and having accepted compromises devoid of substance, the Commission has, however, remained inflexible. I hope that it will listen to our arguments today, for this system proposed by the Commission, this tariff preference, even if it were to amount to EUR 300, is in danger of proving completely useless in practice, for the ACP producers will be wiped out by the so-called ‘first come, first served’ system. This procedure is rightly termed a boat race since, as in such a race, it is the boat which makes all the difference. We already know which competitors will cross the line first: the multinationals with their high-performance equipment and refrigerated ships. Today, the United States and the majority of South American countries themselves reject this system. Why, then, does the Commission continue to defend such an unfair arrangement? Why not consider returning to the ‘historic references’ system to which the United States and the South American countries are now giving their overwhelming support? Otherwise, the ground rules could at least be modified in such a way as not to effectively exclude African producers. A two-round organisation, with the first round reserved for ACP producers when it comes to granting import licences for rating quota ‘C’, would therefore enable a balance to be restored. Where this issue is concerned, our ACP partners do not need charity, Commissioner. They just need us to join forces in order to defend our interests together. () . –  The general public is particularly concerned about the link between the depleted uranium used in weapons and public health. At the moment of impact, these weapons unleash chemical reactions, whose effects upon soldiers, civilians and the environment are still not known. Moreover, uranium, even the depleted variety which is 20% less radioactive than natural uranium, is still a form of nuclear waste and dangerous to use. There may be a link between the cases of leukaemia found in soldiers who have served in the Balkans and the use of such weapons by NATO. Even though conclusive proof has not yet been brought forward, and even if there is no consensus among scientists, what we have today is more than mere suspicion, as is shown by the results of various enquiries. This concern is therefore well grounded and should not be treated lightly. Until we obtain conclusive proof, we should apply the precautionary principle and impose a moratorium on the use of such weapons. This is the very least on which we can decide today, before a total ban is imposed, should the studies confirm the danger. NATO should be totally open about the use of these weapons and about the conduct of its operations in general, and the European Commission should itself begin an independent scientific enquiry. We owe it to all the people who are currently suffering or living under this threat to demand truth and transparency. At a time when international law is tending towards the obligation to intervene legitimately on humanitarian grounds in defence of human rights, the civilian population cannot be put at risk by the armed forces supposed to protect it. –  Mr President, famine and Ethiopia: these are two words sadly etched in our memories. In the Horn of Africa, which has become the site of every conceivable scourge, 16 million victims of famine, of which 8 million are in Ethiopia, are awaiting aid. In Ogaden, the most hard-hit region in south-east Ethiopia, there has been no rain for three years, to the point that the notion of dry seasons and wet seasons is now devoid of all meaning. So of course we have to react, and do so quickly, and unfortunately we know all too well that the price of our procrastination and delays is paid in human lives. At the same time, let me thank the Council and the Commission for what they have already done and for the information they gave us a short while ago. Of course the 800 000 tonnes of emergency aid promised by the international community must be delivered as soon as possible. But at the same time, the countries in the region must do their utmost to facilitate this delivery: by opening up the ports, supply routes and infrastructures. Nonetheless, in a region torn apart by a rearguard conflict, this crisis leaves a particularly bitter taste, because every penny paid to buy a gun, to buy ammunition, aggravates an already precarious economic, social and nutritional situation. We must demand that Eritrea and Ethiopia freeze their military activities so that all the assets, all the logistical and human capabilities of these countries are put at the service of their peoples. The sound of guns has for far too long drowned out the cries of the hungry. That is why we must appeal to the reason of the Ethiopian and Eritrean leaders and call on them to put an end to the conflict, to reach rapid agreement on the technical arrangements for a ceasefire under the OAU peace plan. But at this moment, of course, we must simply listen to the appeals of the suffering people. After more than two years of prevarication, the Council finally adopted in October 1999 a common position on the directive relating to cocoa and chocolate products. As it stands, this text does not allow the interests of consumers, small-scale chocolate makers or cocoa producers to be protected. It also does not guarantee the quality of chocolate. Instead it allows the widespread use of vegetables fats other than cocoa butter, fails to provide precise information to the consumer and attaches little importance to the absence of a reliable method of analysing and measuring the fats present in chocolate. This proposal in no way responds to the concerns expressed by MEPs during the vote at first reading on 23 October 1998. This text opens the door to the industrial production of cocoa butter equivalents based on palm oil, the price of which is significantly lower than that of cocoa. Its adoption could lead to a dramatic fall in income for the eleven million people earning a living from cocoa in West Africa and for all the producing regions. To help us swallow this bitter pill, an attempt has been made to give the text a social aftertaste by claiming that it defends the interests of the poorest shea butter producing countries such as Mali or Burkina Faso. However, there is no guarantee that the chocolate industry will use shea nut oil which, in any case, can only replace 50% of the cocoa butter. This is a largely artificial conflict between cocoa producers and shea producers, between poor countries and even poorer countries. In reality, this proposed directive mainly reflects the position of the chocolate multinationals and defends only their interests with any certainty. I am therefore not happy about this. This is why I fully support the amendments which place greater importance on the concerns of small-scale chocolate makers, the interests of consumers and the future of millions of small-scale cocoa producers. – The Lomé Convention, on which the entire structure of relations between the European Union and the 71 African, Caribbean and Pacific countries rests, is still the most efficient and ambitious development tool in north-south relations. After years of ‘good and loyal service’ it is still the main symbol of efforts by the European Union to promote development and improve the lot of the poorest countries. It is the humane face of Europe… And the merit of Mr Corrie’s report is that it highlights the value of this original, proactive development instrument, together with the work carried out by the Joint Assembly. Especially as the vulnerable architecture of this ambitious structure has been threatened. The partnership between the European Union and the ACP was negotiated in the difficult time of the changeover to the new millennium. I am delighted that reason and generosity triumphed over the difficulties, opening new prospects for this partnership. Now, more than 30 years after the inauguration of an unprecedented partnership between north and south, the tool which has proven its worth and served its time needs to be adapted in order to meet new challenges. Which is why the new 20-year agreement due to be signed in Fiji on 31 May represents more than the simple renewal of the Conventions regulating relations between Europe and the ACP. It should seal their revival. It brilliantly illustrates the political dimension of a partnership which constitutes the only forum for dialogue and political exchange within north-south relations. At a time when the Joint Assembly is opening its doors ever wider to the elected representatives from parliaments in the ACP, this dimension must not only be preserved; above all, it must be encouraged. The Joint Assembly also represents the tribunal before which the countries of Europe and the developing countries defend their common interests. After the debacle in Seattle, our duty from now on is to adopt a concerted position and ensure that the rules of world trade develop and are used to fight poverty. The partnership is here to stay and the way is clear for it to be modernised. First, by promoting a trend towards regional meetings of the Joint Assembly, as recommended in the Corrie report, thereby enabling working methods to be adapted to the new types of cooperation envisaged (regional economic partnership agreements). Then, by gearing actions to micro-projects and making them accessible to the civil society in the southern countries and, finally, by calling for enlargement and the rapid accession of Cuba, which all the ACP called for at Nassau and which has now made a formal application. But we must also preserve the original spirit of the Lomé Convention, which has enabled relations between the European Union and the ACP to become what they are today: a real partnership based on fairness and mutual respect. .We are living in a world of unprecedented global wealth. This wealth, however, has never been so poorly distributed. Inequalities on a global scale have reached intolerable, appalling proportions. In 1960, the 20% of the world’s population living in the richest countries had an income 30 times higher than that of the 20% poorest. In 1995, their income was 82 times higher. At the other end of the scale, almost three billion people live on less than USD two per day. More than 800 million are starving. In September 2001, in the ‘Millennium Declaration’, the international community committed itself to halving poverty by 2015. The international community must, from now on, make the move from these good intentions to positive action. Europe must provide the impetus for this action. Next March, in Monterrey, then in Johannesburg in September at the World Summit on sustainable development, the European Union must take the initiative and make concrete proposals and set a precise timetable to honour these commitments. This offensive promoting development and combating poverty should be organised around four key ideas. The first is to increase public aid in considerable proportions until it reaches – at last – the objective of 0.7% of the wealth of the northern countries set more than 30 years ago. A major step was taken in this direction by the last ‘Development’ Council, which put this objective back on the agenda and called upon the Commission to set deadlines together with the Member States. We need, from now on, to establish a more precise and restrictive timetable. Secondly, we need to provide new answers to the problem of the debts of poor countries. In order to do this, the number of debt restructuring operations that favour the education and primary health care sectors should be dramatically increased, along the lines of the ‘debt-reducing and development contracts’ (C2D) implemented by France. We need to go further than the HIPS ‘heavily indebted poor countries’ initiative and engage in a vast programme for the cancellation of the debt of developing countries. We need to think about the conditions of access of developing countries to international financing, in accordance with the guidelines mentioned by the French Prime Minister. –  Mr President, one day in December 1992, a young shepherd in Mozambique forgot the risk: he thought it had gone with the coming of peace. That over-confidence cost him his left leg. Two kilometres away from a hamlet in Bosnia, in 1999, a sign indicated the presence of mines in a field, but this did not stop a little boy going there. For him it was a place to play, like any other. Indeed, every time a war ends, people leave the refugee camps to return to their villages, hoping to lick their wounds and attempt gradually to rebuild a normal life. But a mine is impervious to peace agreements and continues, inexorably, to do its job. Even though 139 states have now signed the Ottawa Convention, mines are still doing their job of destruction. Every 20 minutes somewhere in the world a mine will explode, bringing death or mutilation. Of course, the Geneva Conference has brought some progress and we must stress that positive trend, for it really is the result of the determined battle the NGOs have long been waging. However, the progress made should not blind us to the reality, and that reality is a total of 27 people killed and another 41 mutilated every single day. The reality is 250 million mines in the arsenals of 105 countries. Even last year, mines were used in 20 conflicts, mainly in Europe. So I welcome the work done by my fellow Members, Emma Bonino and Luisa Morgantini, who have once again brought the political debate into the heart of this Parliament. They make it clear how much we still need to do. For my part, I want to highlight the need to adopt the convention universally so that it may become a total success, firstly by ensuring the compliance of the laws of the various states, so as not to have yet another example of an international agreement that fails to be applied. We must indeed put pressure on those European Union countries that have not signed it, like Finland, or not ratified it, like Greece. Why not consider sanctions, Commissioner, against those who do not respect the agreements? Why not include a clause on accession to this convention in the enlargement conditions? You replied to all that a moment ago. I know there are still differences of opinion on this or that amendment. Yet I would ask you to look at them more carefully, because some of them are acceptable to the Commission. Whatever the outcome, we will all of us together show that we are determined to fight against what has to be called ‘a cowards’ war’. –  This week we heard the first political cry of the new-born Europe. By staunchly and speedily denouncing the participation of Jörg Haider’s xenophobic and anti-European party in the Austrian government, a situation without precedent since the second world war, the European Union has come into its political birthright and has confirmed that it is not merely an economic and financial Community, a large market, a “Europe of shopkeepers”. It is a part of its future which is at stake right now, part of its very essence, its heart and soul. The European Parliament was the first to speak up. The appeal by the European Socialists, on the initiative of Olivier Duhamel, raised awareness and enabled there to be a firm and immediate political response to this unheard of and intolerable situation. A firm attitude which the 14 European States have demonstrated unanimously and promptly, through Mr Guterres, by condemning the risk of the Austrian political situation getting out of control. This courageous stance turns a new page in the construction of Europe. A return to the roots, at last, for a Community built on the basis of the determination to turn our backs on a past history marred by hatred and exclusion and of adherence to the humanist values of openness and tolerance. Europe has managed to stand up to condemn unacceptable events. However, as it lacks the legal instruments to support this political will, since the sanctions stipulated under Article 7 of the Treaties are virtually impossible to apply, will it be able to keep its head high in the face of the threat of the systematic blocking of its entire institutional structure? The whole credibility of Europe is at stake today, before we invite the recent and still vulnerable democracies of the former eastern bloc to join us tomorrow. From now on Europe must put its words into action if it wishes to show the world the scope of its rediscovered ambition. – (FR) Thank you very much, Commissioner, for this comprehensive answer. Might I ask you to clarify one point? If the justification for budget line B7-661 were increased, what measures could be taken in order guarantee effective NGO access to Union funding? – Like my comrades in the European Socialist Party, who have been particularly attentive and assiduous on the occasion of the hearings of the candidate Commissioners, I am pleased with this procedure which has offered us a wealth of information regarding the personalities and intentions of these people we are to liase with. This “final examination” of the future College of the executive body before the elected representatives of the citizens of Europe is an important phase in the democratisation of the European institutions which the Socialists have made their key issue. The low-key performances of some of the candidates, still apparently reticent whenever they have to mention social or employment conditions in Europe, and even the most unconvincing hearing with Mrs Palacio, do not cancel out an overall impression which is generally satisfactory. Unlike the European Right which manifestly sought to conceal its divisions by the very virulence of its attacks, occasionally personal and insulting attacks, on some Commissioners, I intend to promote the path of dialogue and collaboration with the future Commission. The main thing is, in my view, to find once more a credible partner, putting an end to this interminable state of transition, and enabling the European executive to resume its onerous duties and finally make progress, in close consultation with the Members of the European Parliament, on the crucial matters of concern to Europe and its citizens. In this spirit, I am voting in favour of the appointment of the new Commission, without thereby offering them a “blank cheque”. I mean to give myself the option of assessing the quality of the work done on a “piecework” basis. –  Commissioner, thank you for your very detailed answer, particularly with regard to Afghan women. You know that the President of the European Parliament, and some other MEPs too, received a delegation from Afghanistan. We very much want to support them and be by their side. Despite your detailed answer, I do have to ask you for further information. In France,  has been rallying its efforts over the last few days to alert people about the famine and drought in Afghanistan. Yesterday, they came here to Parliament once again. As we know, drought is a terrible thing and this drought appears to be the worst in 30 years. We also know that there is no water irrigation system to combat it. Nothing has been done for 20 years – there are no dams, for example. The situation is terrible and it would now appear that the harvests are down by 65%, a quarter of the population is directly affected by drought and hunger and one million people are heading for the borders. Apparently, life in the camps is increasingly dangerous and, according to , food distribution in Afghanistan is extremely erratic. Given this situation, I need to be able to respond, Commissioner, as, in the dossier being circulated by its members,  has condemned the fact that the European Union’s contribution has fallen from 50 million in 1991 to 36 million in 2000. We are, therefore, moving towards a decrease in aid and assistance to Afghanistan. I would like you to give me an answer on this issue and also to tell me whether – given this situation, the politics, the drought and all the problems that you have mentioned – it would not be more crucial to increase our food aid and to put in place a genuine comprehensive policy on humanitarian aid. Even if this exists – you did mention this – should it not be better coordinated? –  Mr President, I too should also like to express my great concern at the deteriorating human rights situation in Tunisia, a concern that is actively shared by all friends of that country. For several years now, those who have promoted human rights have suffered, together with their families, continual harassment by the Tunisian authorities and some of them have been given prison terms. They are regularly followed by members of the state security services; their passports, and those of their families, are confiscated; their telephone lines are cut off or tapped; they are subjected to defamation campaigns or to verbal and physical threats; and finally, their relatives are regularly interrogated. Given this kind of abuse, the European Parliament today reiterates its conviction that there should be no exception to the respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms. This rule cannot be flouted without damage being done, because Tunisia is the first European partner to have concluded, in 1995, as a matter of fact, an association agreement with the European Union. This agreement contains a clause which calls for human rights to be respected, with suspensive effect and provides for political dialogue.  I certainly prefer political dialogue to unilateral sanctions, but, for this very reason, it is our duty to tell our partners that we are extremely concerned about the situation in Tunisia. It is our duty to ask the Tunisian authorities to undertake all possible initiatives to establish a genuine multiparty political scene, and to guarantee the freedom of the press and freedom of association. But what form will this dialogue take, Mr Patten? What practical and specific steps can we take? How can we make the positions that we adopt here effective? We can start by asking how things are going to develop in Tunisia. The Ben Brik affair alone has come to symbolise the exasperation of many Tunisians in the face of the depletion of their freedoms, with the press being only one of the many areas lying in ruins. There has been a Ben Brik effect, which goes beyond his individual case and in three months, we have seen a whole civil society, which has demonstrated its determination to end the police state, suddenly gain a new dignity. Over these three months, President Ben Ali has continued to wield the carrot and the stick at those who question his methods or who criticise the state of freedoms in his country. Given this attitude, we are entitled to wonder if, tomorrow, Tunisia might not become a new hotbed of tension on Europe’s southern border. Tunisia’s rulers have two solutions today. The first is to continue to refuse to accept the reality of the situation in line with the principle – quite common in this type of regime – of insisting that everything is fine until the final moment, with civil society having to suffer a new wave of repression and to face up to it with courage and determination. It would then be the international Community’s task to isolate a power that would be an outlaw and to support the fight of the Tunisian people to regain their sovereignty.  The Tunisian government can also, however, choose the path of dialogue with civil society, in order to decrease tensions and to negotiate a way of pulling Tunisia out of this impasse and to lead it towards democracy. I think that it is important, as Mr Abitbol said, that we choose our words carefully. In any event, we must implement every measure that we can to ensure that that is the path they choose to follow. The gravity of the European Commission’s plans in this field have been made all too clear by the large mobilisation of information technology users, inventors and innovators. Some progress has certainly been made and this has been turned into amendments but Mr Bolkestein’s stubbornness and the weight of the lobbies promoting the interests of huge economic empires make the final result too uncertain and potentially dangerous. This is why I voted against the directive. –  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the question we are debating this morning is an important one. Hence, the regret and even anger I immediately feel at seeing Parliament consulted too late, and therefore too briefly, about an issue that is, however, vital to our fellow Europeans. We are indeed concerned with the period 2003-2005 which, as may be seen, has already largely begun. My second regret, which also amounts to clear, firm disagreement, relates to the liberal philosophy underlying the report. The European Commission’s proposal and the report, are again based upon a justification of the Stability and Growth Pact, a fact which goes on to lay the foundations for almost all the proposals put before us. As many of my fellow MEPs have said, this is a step that is, at one and the same time, outmoded and retrograde. When growth is seen to have declined considerably and sharp increases in employment are again seen everywhere, there is nothing for it but to be in favour of revising the Stability and Growth Pact. If growth is to be stimulated and jobs created, we must, as Europeans, give ourselves room for manoeuvre in our public finances in order to increase public and private investment, to stimulate research and development and to take account of the social dimension as a positive factor, rather than the restraining one that the liberals maintain it is. In the guidelines proposed to us, there is therefore, at one and the same time, an evident lack of political ambition and a dramatic inversion of political priorities, whereby employment becomes what I shall call a variable used to make adjustments to finances, the economy and the stock exchange and which leads to a proliferation of company restructurings whose only purpose is to increase financial profits. That is why, this morning, I would state my overall disagreement with the spirit, the principles and the poverty of the proposals being put before us. We shall therefore, of course, vote in favour of the amendments aimed at improving them, but we shall continue to fight for a Europe in which citizenship and the social dimension count for more. Since I still have a few seconds left, I should like to conclude with a final word in the form of a question to those of our fellow MEPs who, this morning, have had some very harsh words to say about employees who defend their pensions, and I would ask them if they themselves are prepared to sacrifice their parliamentary pensions. In the light of my experience, allow me to say, Madam President, that I think they are probably not so prepared. I voted in favour of this agreement, as I did in favour of the previous one. I voted in favour of it, not because I support the policy of Mr Sharon’s government but because, for me, such an agreement would promote peace by helping the forces for peace that are present very widely within the scientific world. I am sure, moreover, that everything that promotes intelligence combats fundamentalism and, therefore, violence. I would add, on this Thursday 11 March 2004, that the appalling attack on Madrid, which is traumatising Europe, should enable us better to ‘understand’ public opinion among Israel’s civil population, which is under permanent threat and the victim of bloody terrorist attacks. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having reached this stage of the debate and taking into account what has already been said, I shall simply begin by saying that this Brussels Council was a Council that gave us no surprises, good or bad. Of course, it ratified the list of the ten new future members of the European Union, which is wonderful! Could it really have done anything else, however, without sparking a crisis, or even a disaster? At the same time, though, the Council has not really provided itself with the financial resources needed to perform this enlargement successfully. The Europe of Fifteen will therefore welcome ten new members, on the condition that they are docile and that they agree to do what the 15 Member States often do not do themselves. And I say this because it is my view, even though I remarked upon Commissioner Verheugen’s spirit of openness. What is certainly more serious is that this enlargement could have been or could be a way of enriching the Union with even greater diversity provided by these ten new countries and by taking greater account, in parallel, of the diversities of the current 15 States. We could have encouraged greater pluralism. We instead used the steamroller technique and continued to disregard genuine social needs, public services and citizenship in every meaning of the word. The only things that count, in the long run, are the market and free competition. In 2004, therefore, barring a disaster, there will be 25 EU members. But if we do not redress the balance now, we will then only have one great liberal market subject to two restrictions, namely US policy restrictions, on the one hand, and global economic and financial restrictions on the other. So, instead of a democratic Europe of the citizens, which was the dream of the founding fathers of this Europe, we shall have a sort of Meccano house that is likely to collapse as soon as it encounters the first major crisis. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representing a constituency in the North of France, I have indeed had painful experience of steel industry restructuring in my region. In the 1970s and 1980s, brand new factories were closed down. I have to tell you once again this evening: twenty years on, that wound is still open and sore. I therefore feel the current crises particularly keenly, especially that of Terni, where 900 jobs are under threat. While I was preparing this speech, after reading the motion for a resolution, I re-read my report on steel, which Parliament approved in 1996. At the time, having observed that successive restructuring had cost over 500 000 jobs in twenty years, I was in a position to state that, and I quote item F, ‘the Community steel industry may these days be regarded as generally cost-competitive and technological effective, even though the problem of overcapacity could emerge again in the event of a new crisis’. Two years later, towards the end of 1998, the industry was struck by a devastating crisis following a market crash in Asia. Since then, we have seen a succession of crises – some small, some large-scale, the result of local or world level restructuring – leading to a catalogue of redundancies. As recently as the beginning of 2003, it was Arcelor and the announcement of thousands of job losses. Today it is Terni and the thousand jobs deemed surplus to requirements. Without wishing to attribute greater importance to my 1996 report than it deserves, reading it brought back to me the risks that were already bubbling under the surface: unbridled globalisation, American pressure and production at the cost of the social and environmental aspects. It also recalled, however, measures that were needed to prevent further crises – measures in terms of social acquis and social rights, conditions of State aid, training for employees, respect for the environment, diversification, research, new products and the penetration of new markets. The motion for a resolution before us recalls others, and this proves, unfortunately, that our warnings were not heeded. The Terni situation is symptomatic. This is why we must rein in the great roaring machine, not only because the workers demand it of us, but also because if we let go, then great swaths of the European iron and steel industry will go by the wayside. In this context, despite the efforts and sacrifices of workers in the past, there is a danger that the European Steel Industry will disappear completely, followed swiftly by those industries that use steel products; in the fullness of time, therefore, it will be European industry as a whole that is under threat. Further proof that there is no such thing as a good economy without a social element, without training and without respect for the workers. In the short-term, some will make a profit, but that is not the issue for us. The issue for us is defending the economy, industry and jobs. Mr President, while I likewise salute the great energy expended by Mr Herzog and all his hard work, I wish to say very clearly that I really cannot vote tomorrow for this report as amended and adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I oppose this report because it is the expression of an ultraliberal will. It has been hijacked for use as a weapon in the campaign to demolish our social model, destroy jobs and abandon the policy of regional development. Should the plenary Chamber endorse the position of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs tomorrow, we should have no choice – as several speakers have already said – but to reject this proposal and demand a proper framework directive and genuine European public services. We still have time to set matters right. That needs to be done for the sake of the overwhelming majority of European citizens. While supporting the Auroi report and the work of our rapporteur, throughout the debate I have felt the need to point out that, in the field of mobile telephone communications, if we applied the precautionary principle we would stop using portable telephones altogether. It is easy to see why. Well then, let us at least ensure that proper research is carried out with a view to limiting the potential risks of this technology, and let us very quickly prohibit the most suspect installations or materials. Let us not wait for another asbestos-type crisis to make us aware of the dangers that are threatening us. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this morning’s preparatory debate gives me the opportunity to make a final contribution on the current and future direction of Europe’s policies. To me, one who has always been a European, it gives the opportunity to bring the point home that Europeans have now had enough of a Europe that is essentially economic and financial, one that all too often, for the sake of the free market and of competitiveness, sacrifices jobs and ignores the day-to-day problems faced by the public; so I join with them, the people, this morning, in recalling the dream of Europe’s founding fathers, the dream of building a Europe of peace, culture, diversity, social security and citizenship in freedom and democracy. Fifty years on, the Europe in which we live is certainly economically strong – for some – but it has neither heart nor breath of life, believes in nothing and is too full of injustice. We are having what we call a spring summit, we are on the threshold of enlargement, a new Intergovernmental Conference is about to be held, and there is very little in the budget, yet I still want to believe that there is still time to set a new course. Having been at first a rather euphoric European, and having now become, after fifteen years in the European Parliament, a more realistic, more critical, not to say more uneasy one, I wanted to use my two minutes to shout, ‘Look out! Danger ahead!’ If it took fifty years to build the European Union that we have now, there is no small risk that we will one day see the structure implode for lack of sufficient popular support or of any ambitious vision of society, through failure to give priority to jobs, to respect for national and regional differences, and in the absence of any real solidarity. It is the richest, rather than the poorest, who must pay for the most disadvantaged. A European constitution is not an objective in itself; it is meaningless unless it meets the public’s expectations, and this morning, I have reminded you of what – in my view – their essential expectations are. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking as the rapporteur concerned with the implementation, via an Article 169 programme to which EUR 600 million was allocated, of a partnership between Europe and the developing countries in the field of research to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, I should like to congratulate Mr Wijkman. We are of course all aware of the urgency and gravity of the situation. Five million people die each year of one of these three diseases. Almost 40 million people are infected by AIDS/HIV, and 90% of them live in developing countries, most of those – 70% – in sub-Saharan Africa. We are also seeing tuberculosis making a comeback. As for malaria, which reappeared in the seventies, it is once again affecting countries in which it had been eradicated. There is no need to say any more, except that the European Union owes it to itself to adopt, quickly, a strategy to combat these diseases effectively. The regulation that we are discussing here defines the framework for Community action. It also creates the legal basis for Europe’s contribution, the aim being to encourage research to develop medicines, treatments and vaccines and to facilitate access to them. This is absolutely vital, because only 10% of research activities concern diseases which are responsible for 90% of disease in the world. We therefore need to carry out public research and encourage the private sector to invest in it. We must also, above all, ensure that these medicines are suitable for the living conditions that prevail in the countries concerned, so that they can be distributed via health systems which are worthy of the name. Finally, we must ensure that the prices are not prohibitive, and here we come back to the problem of intellectual property. I support this report, Mr President, and I hope that it will be adopted at first reading. .War is always a failure in which the first victims are always innocent people. Moreover, in this case, if Iraq is not the only country governed by a dictator, or the only State with weapons of mass destruction, the fact that it has a lot of oil should not give George W. Bush the right to throw the region into a state of unrest in the medium term. We should therefore say no to war and trust the UN. This is why I voted in favour of Parliament’s resolution against war, and regret that a large proportion of the right wing opposed it. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first speech to this House fifteen years ago, which I remember, took place during an evening sitting at around 11.45 p.m. My last speech, fifteen years later, is also in the evening, before an almost equally reduced audience. I am nevertheless pleased to be able to make this speech on this important matter of the rail package and everything that it implies. I would like once again to say on behalf of my group and also personally that we think it is very important to maintain and particularly to develop a quality, tight, diverse, secure European rail network, providing a public service to all the citizens of Europe and contributing to a balanced use of land in Europe. In our view, the rail package and what underlies it are an example of a Europe that we no longer want, a Europe which has given priority to free competition, very often over any other consideration. It is true that thanks to the fight by the unions in the sector and by a party in Parliament, not forgetting the real pressure of public opinion that is increasingly sensitive to our arguments, the points that were most dangerous for the future of rail have been removed or deferred. But in our view, and in my view, the result is still not acceptable, in particular with the Jarzembowski and Sterckx reports, despite the Savary and Ainardi reports which we consider to be positive. Ultimately, the overall result is still too negative in our view. To conclude, I would like to express my hope that in future there will be more forces that wish to construct the other Europe that we want, a social and citizen’s Europe which we think is much closer to the dream of the founding fathers of Europe than this Europe of a big liberal market that years of liberalisation decisions have finally led us to. Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to begin by congratulating my fellow MEP, Mrs Jöns, on the value of her work and the quality of her report. It is a very comprehensive report. Her description of the situation, of the problems and of what is at stake is particularly exhaustive, and the rapporteur’s analyses are completely relevant. We are very pleased, particularly with the fact that the report calls upon the Member States to do away with inequalities in the area of health, especially those linked to socio-economic factors, gender or age. We support the criticism that patients have to bear an ever greater portion of the cost of health care, which penalises people on low incomes. We support the call for a detailed charter of patients’ rights, designed to bring about a high-quality health system in the short, medium and long term, based on solidarity. Like the rapporteur, we request special measures for the new Member States which, for the most part, experience situations more critical than those in the Fifteen. Finally, I am, like the members of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, hostile to any further privatisation of health care. As far as I am concerned, I wish, by way of summary, to say some very simple things. Where health is concerned, it is perhaps necessary, in a number of sectors, to spend better by spending differently. That is something I do not deny. If, however, the desire is to treat and cure serious illnesses that are rapidly becoming more widespread, particularly cancer; to deal much better too with rare, orphan diseases, as they are termed; to confront the needs arising from the ageing of our societies’ populations; to provide better psychological and human support to patients; and to be better at developing all public research, including research into surplus embryonic stem cells, which raises new hopes, particularly in connection with illnesses linked to ageing; then, yes, if the desire is to attain all these objectives, more budgetary resources are needed. It is a need no doubt opposed to other state and European priorities and, above all, to the rigour of the monetary stability criteria. Finally, I would draw attention to the fact that the poor in our societies, who are too often excluded from care, must never be forgotten. Nor must we forget the poor countries of the world, which do not even have the minimum of health care and whose people, as a consequence, have much shorter life expectancies than ourselves. I shall conclude with a saying that, familiar though its sentiments undoubtedly are, needs constantly to be recalled if it is to be put into practice. If I remember rightly, it is to the effect that quality, not length, of life is what really matters in the end. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the work by the European Commission, the rapporteur, whom I thank, and our European Parliament, whose representatives have spoken this evening, are based on two central facts. One very positive fact: the human lifespan is increasing constantly while external signs of ageing are decreasing significantly. Another fact, which is of serious concern to economists and in particular to anyone with budgetary responsibilities: this increased lifespan goes hand in hand with health and care needs, the costs of which are also increasing and will increase considerably over the coming years. Unless we believe, therefore, that the single market and free competition will solve all the problems in this regard as well, we shall have to be prepared to make significant financial efforts in terms of contributions and taxes, which will of course have to be distributed fairly, in order to guarantee a high level of care for all. Some, quite wrongly, deny this. Others find it regrettable; I find it regrettable for them, because they will be old one day too. Lastly, others, myself included, think and say that we must grasp the nettle. It is the only way of preventing longer lives from being nothing more than delayed death and ensuring that this increase represents the continuation of a genuine life, not forgetting that experience is also a factor in progress. This requires quality care and services, adapted to every situation, which necessitates public research for new medicines and treatments, changes in mentality and different priorities for our society and, in particular, public budgets which meet our needs. Now, at the beginning of a new millennium, Mr President, we all know, and some, even some of us, regret, that we are far from having fulfilled all these conditions and criteria. –  I should like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Markov on his excellent report which, moreover, has been adopted unanimously by the parliamentary committee. The EBRD is not connected with the European Union. Nor is it a development bank coming under the World Bank group. Its capital derives from more than 60 countries interested in the future of Central and Eastern Europe following the fall of the Berlin Wall. During the twelve years of transition, the EBRD has had to take up many challenges. Its president, Jacques de Larosière, appeared before the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left to report to us on its activities. Like the rapporteur, I think we have to support the bank. Indeed, even if its objective is to develop the market economy in these former Communist countries, the social, environmental and public service dimensions have not been sacrificed. The EBRD is not, as some might believe, the ambassador of ultra–liberalism. Its mandate is to invest where other banks fear to tread. I am very pleased that the EBRD concentrates its activities on the development of small and medium–sized enterprises whose key role in job creation is well known. –  Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to speak this evening on a theme that is close to my heart: that of European citizenship. As stated in the Treaty, European citizenship supplements national citizenship, but is not a substitute for it. European citizenship should also be an added extra for everyone living in the European Union. In December 2000, the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights finally placed the citizen at the heart of European integration, eight years after the Treaty of Maastricht. It was high time indeed because, at European level as well as at national and local level, it is unthinkable to conduct politics in any way other than by placing citizens at the heart of all considerations, all social measures and all social projects. Despite being in a good position to know that, in practice, things work slightly differently, this must not prevent us from fighting to change things, quite the opposite. The rapporteur listed the areas that are meant to feature in European citizenship. There is therefore no need for me to repeat them. I am, however, deeply mindful of a whole series of social rights which were quoted by other speakers. The report gives an assessment of how these rights are being implemented. This assessment is not overly enthusiastic because, although it reports on progress made, it also highlights the fact that a great deal is still to be done in various areas. We mentioned voting at the European elections, in which less than 50% of voters took part. We must, therefore, put in place measures that will encourage citizens to take part in these elections and, above all, we must give renewed consideration to the link between the elected representatives and the electorate. We must, once again, inspire citizens with the desire to vote and the desire to become involved in community life. The citizen must be an actor and not just an observer. The recent elections in the various EU Member States also reinforcethis belief. What can we also say about mobility for education purposes? I have been telling the authorities for years about the lack of recognition of qualifications. European citizens are calling for swift action to be taken in this area. What can we say about the mobility of researchers? I have been appointed rapporteur on the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Development and I know that this is a real obstacle course. I would like to end, Mr President, by thanking the rapporteur for his thoughts and with the hope that, if we all pull together, we will be able to take steps to strengthen our approach and to go further in placing the citizen at the heart of our European project. . –  I voted in favour of Mr Garot’s excellent report and I want to take this opportunity to congratulate him on his work on European agriculture. Mr Garot has managed to strike a good balance between those who would like to disengage Europe from agriculture in favour of the world market and those who consider the European budget a ‘milch cow’ making the richest farmers even richer. . This communication from the European Commission on the integrated management of the external borders of the EU is designed to ensure that we have an area of freedom, security and justice. We can only approve the establishment of coordination between the Member States over external border control. In order to guarantee security within the EU, in particular following enlargement, we need to: - ensure mutual trust between the Member States with regard to border control, - combat all kinds of internal and external threats created by terrorism and - combat illegal immigration. Having said that, I cannot support the repressive, security-obsessed thinking behind some of these proposals, even if, and in particular if, it is currently popular at European level, and particularly in France. We are too inclined to combat the symptoms rather than the true causes of the problems of poverty and unemployment, not forgetting the absence of genuine policies in favour of immigrants. Nobody can deny that the right to security is a fundamental right. We must all be aware, however, that we cannot sacrifice the other fundamental rights in order to achieve it. – I must congratulate Mrs Ainardi on her excellent work. Her report is part of a ‘rail package’ that seeks to promote the development of the rail sector through the creation of an integrated rail system. This would involve achieving the interoperability of the trans-European rail system, crucial to ensure that international traffic can flow freely. Until now, the fact that different countries have very different specifications and technical standards, that are often incompatible, has created difficulties in using rail transport. As a strong supporter of the railways, I think this is a deplorable situation. It has repercussions for both the protection of the environment and passenger safety. I therefore very much welcome the Commission’s proposal to attempt to coordinate the different TSIs (technical specifications on interoperability). That said, safety standards must never be harmonised to a lower level! We must also make it necessary to assess the expected benefits of each and every proposed TSI in terms of market share, traffic growth, environmental concerns, safety standards and social issues. Advocates of the concept of public service must keep an eagle eye on these issues, given the prevailing philosophy on this subject! . Contrary to a majority of MEPs, I cannot regret the failure of Mr Berlusconi and the Council regarding the IGC and the draft European Constitution. Although the reasons why they failed are not the same as the reasons why I personally would have rejected the draft presented by Mr Giscard d'Estaing, I believe that the current crisis can only be beneficial. I hope that it will make people aware that Europe needs a new draft and new social inspiration from the citizens for a different Europe. –  Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, I do of course share many of the concerns held by the majority of my group. Like them, I am particularly concerned by one question. How can we possibly develop a defence structure when we have not yet established a common foreign policy? I would like to add that I am also vehemently opposed to the very principle of a pre-emptive war like the one underway in Iraq. I deplore the disagreement between the countries of Europe on this important issue. Clearly NATO is already dominated by the United States. I have to say that if Europe does not wish to reinforce this monopoly, and if we in Europe want to be able to settle conflicts through effective and strong European diplomacy, we must establish a European defence architecture. We must ensure such a European defence has clear objectives and principles. It must fulfil specific missions using appropriate capacities and arms. It must depend on a legitimate and democratic decision-making process. In my opinion, conflicts throughout the world should be settled through diplomatic means, within the framework of the United Nations in particular. In order to have sufficient diplomatic clout to be able to solve these problems through diplomacy, Europe needs to have the ability to take military action. I think we in Europe should not deny ourselves this capacity. In short, if Europe no longer wishes to leave its future in the hands of the United States, it must provide itself with the necessary means so that a European defence architecture can at last be established. . I am vehemently in favour of keeping, indeed developing, cultural diversity in Europe, particularly at this time when it is being enlarged to comprise twenty-five Member States. Since languages are the main component of this diversity, then I am in favour of linguistic enlargement, in spite of any material or technical difficulties that may arise from it. Incidentally, I fear that there is a double game being played by those who are arguing for an increase in the number of languages, with the actual aim of better establishing the monopoly of English. Therefore, we need to work on the language question, in particular by again giving objective consideration to Esperanto. The monopoly of English is neither good for Europe nor for Great Britain, whose language will become a mere ‘nuts and bolts language’ –  Mr President, I shall just speak very briefly to tell Mr De Keyser that he must have been wrongly informed. There is no resistance from Parliament. Parliament voted for a common position, which did not even amend the common position decreed by the Council, with regard to ethical problems. Parliament accepted a compromise integrating all the amendments voted for by Parliament on a whole series of issues, and we learned quite by chance in July that the Council was going back on its word. It is the Council’s bad faith that Parliament is condemning. That is why the rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the shadow rapporteurs meet regularly in order to represent Parliament to the Council, ask to be involved in negotiations and ensure that the Council’s word and the word of the Spanish Presidency are respected by the Danish Presidency. It is very simple: there is no threat from anyone at all in this area. Parliament is extremely responsible and, during the codecision procedure, did not want to go as far as conciliation and so accepted a compromise. It is this compromise that is disputed by the Council and we must all be unanimous, whatever our opinions on ethical problems, in denouncing this kind of behaviour. Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having spoken yesterday evening on European citizenship, I am pleased to be able to speak this morning, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the matter of the European area of education and learning. The link is clear, and was, furthermore, emphasised by the Feira European Council, where it was stated that ‘education and lifelong learning are an essential policy for the development of citizenship’. Ladies and gentlemen, as everyone has said, education and learning must be accessible to everyone so that everyone has the same opportunities to find their place in society. As we know, however, we are a long way from achieving this objective. Inequalities become clear as soon as children enter the educational system, and are responsible for many academic failures, before breeding social exclusion in later life. This is a downward spiral and hence the vital importance of adopting a coordinated strategy at European level which provides access for every European citizen to a decent and sufficient minimum standard of education and of learning. The Commission communication attempts to respond to this ambitious project. Several proposals are, furthermore, of the greatest interest, even if they would benefit from being clarified and complemented by the provisions contained in Mrs Van Brempt’s report, on which we are about to vote. We welcome the fact that the Commission is advocating the right of every citizen, including those who have left school early, to acquire basic skills via free compensatory learning in later life. We also support the idea that the Commission should, working closely with the Member States, put in place a European framework to define the basic skills that all pupils have to have acquired. With regard to training, I support the request for the Commission to implement clear strategies with adequate funding for the chapter concerning lifelong learning. Finally, in order to create a European area of education, equal opportunities in the field of education and training must be guaranteed for everyone, in particular for women, through close cooperation between all the social actors concerned. Furthermore, the integration programmes designed for immigrants should exist even for pre-school pupils. I shall finish by very warmly congratulating Mrs Van Brempt on her work and her report and by pointing out that education and lifelong learning are not only a social necessity but a major social right too. .Having signed a vast resolution on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, I voted in favour of it because it honestly presents the human rights situation, including the genuine progress but also the serious shortcomings. This resolution is a ‘travel warrant’ for true democracies. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the important debate on the nuclear package, my position, and that of my group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, is clear. We do not, on this occasion, have to take sides in the confrontation between those in favour of, and those against, nuclear energy. We have to start from where we are in terms of the planet’s energy needs and in terms of how to respond to these needs. I would draw your attention to a few figures: at present, we use the equivalent of ten billion tons of oil, 90% of which is fossil fuel. Looking further into the twenty-first century, we observe that our needs are going to double by as early as 2050 or 2060, even if we are unwavering in our efforts to make energy savings. We do not, therefore, have the resources to do without nuclear energy. If we were to do so, we should both be short of energy and see more serious pollution of the planet. We must therefore do everything to improve the management of nuclear energy. That is why, regarding the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, I congratulate Mr Vidal-Quadras for the quality of his work. In particular, he proposes an essential change. Each Member State should, between now and 31 December 2006, set its own deadline for preparing and presenting a waste management programme. That seems to me to be more realistic than the Commission’s proposal. The report also poses the problem of the nature of the waste in question. Does it amount to freely circulating merchandise? For us, the waste is not ordinary merchandise, and we agree to specifying that, although a Member State’s programme may provide for the transfer of nuclear waste to another Member State, no Member State is obliged to accept such imports. When, finally, it comes to the safety of nuclear installations while they are being operated or decommissioned, I also wish to congratulate my colleague, Mr Seppänen, who has been very skilful in carrying out his work as rapporteur. The Commission’s proposal was not really satisfactory, and Mr Seppänen was not content to ask the Commission to try to come up with something better. Instead, he listed the shortcomings and put forward constructive criticisms, which my group and I support. Yes, our European Parliament and our Commission may genuinely be said to have worked well, overall, on this nuclear package. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Busquin, as rapporteur on the sixth RDFP, I should first like to say how pleased I am to see the deadlines for the adoption of the specific programmes being respected. This will allow the broad guidelines on European research, which we adopted in last May’s part-session, to be implemented in the best possible conditions. Admittedly, the adoption of the rules for participation has been postponed to July. The tight deadlines – so we have been told – left no alternative. In any case, the RDFP package – the specific programmes and the rules for participation – will be adopted before the summer recess, which will allow them to be implemented properly on 1 January 2003. We will therefore be respecting the undertaking that I gave to you back in February 2001, and I am particularly pleased about this. Turning now to the specific programmes, which are the subject of tonight's debate, I should also like warmly to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr van Velzen, Mrs Zorba, Mr Alyssandrakis, Mr Piétrasanta and Mr Schwaiger. Personally, at this stage in the work, I followed progress more particularly on Mr van Velzen’s report on the specific programme on the first and third aspects of the RDFP. Once again, I can testify to the quality of Mr van Velzen’s work, all the more so when he had to rework his report several times: he firstly had to take into account the outcome of the votes at the second reading of the RDFP and then had to transfer several of the amendments adopted en bloc at the same vote into the specific programme. The end result is a report which is absolutely consistent with the results of the votes on the sixth RDFP, and this in three respects, the first being the seven priorities. There is no point my reminding you of the list, but I will mention in particular the first of these priorities to say that in the specific programme we have better clarified the status of health and the fight against major diseases, separate from research on the genome. Secondly, the report is consistent in terms of budget. Parliament very much welcomes the increase in certain budget lines and the inclusion of footnotes giving guidance on allocation within some budget lines, as we requested. Thirdly, and finally, it is consistent in terms of the transition between the new and old instruments, which had been a source of concern to Parliament and several Member States. Finally, the report specifies the research areas adopted at an appropriate level of detail. For example, mine clearance, research into the solar system, doping practices, safety in the workplace and biological agents used by terrorists. We managed to steer clear of a further debate on the ethical issue. Some were nevertheless tempted, but common sense won through and the interests of the majority prevailed: I should like to thank all colleagues for this. I will conclude by praising the excellent spirit of cooperation between the various political groups, the Commission representatives and Commissioner Busquin, the Council and the Spanish Presidency. Thanks to this we will have adopted, by the appointed time, an excellent work programme that the European scientific community will now be able to implement from 1 January 2003. . –  Since Mrs Patrie’s legitimate request to refer the report back to committee was rejected and the amendments from the Left have not been adopted, I voted against the report along with my three colleagues from the Republican, Radical and Citizens’ Left. . – This report raises the question of the future of our planet from the point of view of pollution in brutal terms. Ten years after Rio, things are not looking too good. The progress made is out of proportion to the problems and the natural development prospects of emerging countries are sure to aggravate the situation from an environmental point of view (just imagine how much pollution a country like China will produce once it is has caught up with us). I do not know if the European Parliament will avoid the final catastrophe, but its intervention is bound to do some good. . –  The Commission’s proposal which aims to put in place a multiannual programme for action in the field of energy between 2003 and 2006, strengthens Community support in those energy fields contributing to sustainable development. The programme we are discussing will replace the ALTENER and SAVE programmes, and in part, SYNERGY, whilst retaining their activities. The proposed new programme has four strands. The first is the improvement of energy efficiency and demand management, particularly in the building and industry sectors (SAVE). The second is the promotion of new and renewable energy sources for centralised and decentralised production, and their integration into the urban environment (ALTENER). The third is support for initiatives on the energy aspects of transport, the diversification of fuels and the promotion of renewable fuels and energy efficiency in transport, (STEER). The final strand is support for initiatives promoting renewable energy sources and energy efficiency in the various countries as a result of the development of the sector (COOPENER). Energy is a major concern for the European Union. I am happy therefore to see that these actions have been included in a single programme. This should allow them to be managed and implemented more effectively. Furthermore, I agree with the rapporteur in that we will need a larger budget if these aims are to be fulfilled! I entirely support the approach of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs with regard to the area of corporate social responsibility. It seems to me that the social and environmental practices of European companies must be subject to controls similar to those used for competition practices. This is essential if we are to have a real social Europe alongside the internal market, in which competition plays the leading role. This should be regarded as an all-important objective of any future-oriented business policy, and as a guiding principle of European social and economic policies. Ideally, businesses, which are major investors, should have a strategy which goes beyond the horizon of their short-term profits and which would combine economic expansion, social progress and sustainable development. The race for profits in the world economy makes it necessary for us to adopt practical measures to ensure that the social principles laid down at political level do not remain a dead letter. We must therefore demand that it should be possible to monitor the application of this concept of corporate social responsibility, even though, it has to be admitted, it is still somewhat vague. One of the suggestions is that the Commission should submit a proposal, in the context of the appropriate directive, with a view to making it compulsory for businesses to produce social and environmental reports just as they produce financial reports. . – The liberals and conservatives of all kinds (and colours) who have signed a joint resolution have caused the failure of all the attempts to defend cultural diversity and reject the commoditisation of culture. All the amendments of the GUE/NGL Group in this regard were rejected. That is why, like the members of my delegation of the republican, radical, pro-citizen left, the GUE/NGL Group and a very few other socialist MEPs, I voted against this ‘PPE-PSE-Liberals’ resolution. This type of Europe is not the European Europe for which I have fought for 40 years. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the matter of transport in Europe, which we are debating due to the examination of a White Paper with the evocative title ‘European transport policy for 2010: time to decide’ and the report by Mr Collado on this White Paper, is, to me, a perfect example of the gap, not to say the canyon, that exists in Europe in this field, as in many others, between needs and reality, between the stated objectives and the means implemented to achieve them. All because a market logic, founded in 1992 in a White Paper behind directives on competitiveness and liberalisation, has led to our neglecting safety, the environment, social aspects and land use planning. The senseless belief that liberalisation is effective, not to say perfect, has created short-sightedness with regard to the future, devalued public action and public services, condemned those who believe in the need for long-term public investment and divided funding, excluding general interest and the positive or negative effects of decisions taken in the short term. The rapporteur himself criticised this very firmly and I would thank him for that. I also support him, of course, when he says that transport is a strategic sector for land use planning and for economic and social cohesion, and when he speaks of the serious consequences for the environment. He tells us that sustainable development must comprise the basis for a European transport policy, and I agree. He calls for global transport management, and I agree. I also agree, of course, with his concern for safety and social requirements. I therefore support many of his requests, but I am very afraid that at the time of voting, the necessary electric shock will not be sufficient to cause deep-seated policy changes in this area. Our rapporteur speaks of the need for greater balance between modes of transport, which is good, but this is not sufficient, far from it. As I requested during the debate on the sixth FRDP, we need further research in the field. In particular, we should quickly redirect public investment by means of public borrowing, significant public borrowing. The year 2010 is in seven years and that is very close. If Europe does not want to limit itself to a list of good intentions, it must now, as of 2003, redirect all its investments and all its choices in this area by providing itself with new legislative instruments and financial resources equal to what is at stake. .–  I have always said that the fullest possible integration of persons with disabilities into our society is not merely something demanded by justice and solidarity, but also a tremendous source of human richness for our society and for every one of us. So much is this self-evident that we ought not to need to legislate. Experience proves, though, that legislation is needed and that it has to be binding. This House has therefore proposed that the Convention, when it eventually comes into being, should be required to include certain categories of rights. I am in favour of this and support the demand that the Commission should draw up a precise and rigorous timetable for this. .–  In the name of the precautionary principle and because the development of GMOs makes me think of the sorcerer’s apprentice in the service of easy money and an outmoded emphasis on high productivity, I am now hostile to the use and development of GMOs. That being said, since GMOs exist – and whether we are for or against them – neither I nor anyone else can be opposed to improving traceability and labelling. This improvement is a lesser evil that must not cause us to forget the basic question. Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our debate this evening proves once again that energy is not a commodity like any other. The fate of the Alstom Group’s 120 000 employees can no more be guaranteed by free competition than the future of energy and its independence – and thus Europe’s political independence – can be by simply enforcing the rules and principles of the free market. Even in the happy home of liberalisation – I am referring to the United States of America – they know this and they know how to act accordingly. This is why, unlike the vast majority, if not all, of my colleagues, I personally welcome the endeavours of the Commission to retrain its sights in this area. I am in favour of larger gas and oil reserves which, in the event of serious shortage, could prevent potential recourse to war in a world in which, as we know, the control of energy is often the primary cause of war. As regards management, I am also in favour of greater solidarity between States during shortages, under the auspices of the European Commission, in order to avoid political tensions or even conflicts between Member States where those that are best provided for are able to impose their choices on others. This is an area where, for me, legitimate respect for the powers of the Member States and the need for the European Commission to be given greater authority are not contradictory. We therefore need to follow you, Madam President, if only - as Mr Linkohr has just said - to avoid you or the Commission one day being criticised for having done nothing. Since the budget that has been presented – as a reflection of current European policies, with which I do not agree – is a budget that perfectly illustrates the reasons for the crisis in which we find ourselves today in Europe, I therefore, quite naturally, voted against it. This does not, in any way, question the work carried out by the members of the Committee on Budgets. .–  I have voted in favour of this report even though, on certain points, my assessment, and even my approach, were in some ways different. The European Parliament has, in fact, succeeded in resisting the reactionary pressure exercised by the fundamentalist Right. .– This good report, which is going in the right direction, towards realism rather than a reactionary ideology, has been widely approved. That is a good thing! That is why I also voted in favour of the report. . –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank all the Members who have helped me over the last year and a half with the work on the Sixth Framework Programme on research. I would point out that the FP6, with a budget of EUR 17.5 billion, is Europe’s third largest policy. My thanks go to Commissioner Busquin and to Mr Marimón Suñol, both of whom just reiterated that we reached agreements thanks to the 34 compromise amendments which were adopted on Monday evening by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. As rapporteur, I of course urge my fellow Members to adopt these amendments and these amendments alone which will mean that, today at midday, we will be on the verge of finalising our Sixth Framework Programme and that it can be applied in the best possible conditions as of 1 January 2003. Thank you all! –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking in the debate of 18 November 2002 on the Commission’s legislative and work programme for 2003, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, I said that I could not see how anyone could be against the political priorities stated, but I added that there was a wide discrepancy between the objectives and the measures taken to implement them, resulting in increasing dissatisfaction on the part of public opinion and the risk that the European ideal itself might be rejected by those who, like myself, want a European Europe. Four months later, having read the long communication from the Commission and heard President Prodi, and speaking on behalf of the GUE/NGL, I would be tempted to say the same thing, except that today’s information document is far more watered down. It is a display of what I would term blind optimism. Worse still, I find it to be extremely dated and swamped with useless, obvious facts. For example, the mandate of the Prodi Commission ends in 2004; European elections will be held and 732 members will be elected; enlargement will take place on 1 May provided that the ratification process is complete. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, world peace is severely threatened and the UN is in danger of losing credibility. The Member States are divided between those that uphold peace and those that are in favour of war, between those that are blindly following the United States and those seeking a balanced European position. The economic crisis and the recession are worsening rapidly, unemployment is increasing everywhere with thousands of people the victims of harsh redundancies, insecurity in all its forms is flourishing to the detriment of the weakest and, in the face of these mortal challenges, the first two of which were raised by President Prodi this morning, the written communication discusses new forms of governance, stability, new social and economic agendas, quality of life, border security and even traffic and registration taxes for private vehicles. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the members of my group are not all pro-Europe, to say the least, but they are realists. The vast majority of them, given that Europe now exists, demand that it should at least be a people’s Europe, that it should be democratic, pay attention to social issues and not be subject to the diktats of the economy, in order to respond to the real problems of European citizens. I am sorry to have to tell you, therefore, President Prodi, that not only do we disagree with the ideology that underpins your proposals but, what is worse, these proposals, even if we were to accept this ideology, are barely equal to the major issues we need to resolve. That, Mr President, is why, with all the respect that is due to you and that I have for you, I would ask you to review your document. . Leaving behind the media stir, there are two issues to which this summer’s heatwave in Europe should open the eyes of decision-makers. We are responsible for the disruption of the climate and for the dangerous world that we are going to bequeath to our children. For some things, it is already too late. For others, courageous decisions have to be taken very quickly, even if they are not popular. The thousands of deaths, often of elderly and sometimes unknown people, reminds us that it is not enough to ‘prolong life’ but that we need to give the means to live, whatever the situation, the handicap, health and age. Our society is far from this and worse, it is getting further away from it. (Just look at the French Government’s decisions to lower taxes). . – In 1992, the Earth Summit took place in Rio to address the issue of sustainable development. Numerous conferences have taken place since then. Johannesburg should have been the opportunity to turn all the good intentions expressed over the last ten years into a concrete, courageous and ambitious plan of action. Today, I am disappointed by the poor results achieved. There is no point in repeating the list of shortcomings in the action plan adopted. I simply wish to stress that research policy was given far too little attention during the debates on sustainable development. While the main role of science is to monitor the state of the environment and to make this known to decision-makers and the public, it should be expected to formulate solutions to environmental problems. Europe, which has put in place its European area of research, an area which is open to the world, must be in a position to share its scientific knowledge and to share the benefits of its experience with the developing countries. These countries are faced with a difficult equation to resolve; that of reconciling the need for strong and rapid growth with all the harm that this may imply in social and environmental terms! . Having always been a campaigner for an industrial Europe and, therefore, for a European industrial policy, I have supported Mrs Zrihen’s excellent work and followed it with interest. I should, of course, have preferred us to have gone much further regarding the measures to be implemented (including in the constitutional framework), as well as where the environmental issues, not forgetting the social and human dimensions, were concerned. The political and economic power relations in Europe and in Parliament have, of course, limited our achievements. For all that, the pace is to Mrs Zrihen’s credit, and, because it is a move in the right direction, I have supported her report. – Mr President, on the basis of the twin factors of the current serious level of atmospheric pollution and its foreseeable development, on the one hand, and the Kyoto objectives and the means intended to achieve them, on the other, and if we reject allowances for latecomers, the perpetuated and exaggerated domination of the poor countries by the rich countries, and above all the commercialisation of air, which I believe to be a universal resource, we can only express reservations in relation to the system of pollution allowances and trading in them. I do not deny that this system is certainly better than the existing one. And I would like to say in all seriousness that I am personally alarmed at such a generalised lack of awareness considering that breathing is something that everybody will always have to do. It is clear that, however, within this context, our rapporteur has done some very good work. I can say that he has done a lot to improve the system by extending the scope, making it obligatory and proposing complementarity with other environmental polices – public transport, renewable energy, charging, research, energy efficiency. We can therefore vote for these proposals although we will not abandon our fight for a more courageous and less mercenary global policy in this area. –  I should first like to congratulate my colleague, Elisa Damião, on the work that she has done on this extremely important issue. All of us remember the long debates which took place in the eighties, when everyone refused to budge from their opposing camps. Some argued that the fact that asbestos was dangerous was not irrefutably proven, while those exposed to it rightly wanted the precautionary principle – as we now call it – to be applied. In the end, they had to take account of the various studies stating that asbestos was a particularly dangerous substance and that exposure to it could cause serious diseases. Since then, too many people have taken risks, risks for which the price is paid in the longer or shorter term. This is because some diseases have a long incubation period from the time when fibre is lodged in the body until the point of biological degeneration. The majority of Member States have now banned the marketing and use of products containing asbestos. Nevertheless in some sectors the risk persists. I am thinking in particular of work to remove asbestos and maintenance or repair work on buildings containing asbestos. .–Yesterday evening I had the opportunity to express my strong reservations about a White Paper and a report, both of which illustrate the gulf between the objectives sought and the means used to achieve them, not only in the field of transport but also in many other fields in Europe. Today, at voting time, there were still 'margins of uncertainty' regarding the possible adoption of certain amendments, in particular those tabled by the GUE-NGL Group. Those on the Right united against them, very often with the support of the Socialists. I therefore voted against a report which does not respond to the serious issues at stake in terms of regional planning, the environment and social matters. . –  I endorse Mrs Damião’s report and congratulate her warmly on her work. The asbestos tragedy is a typical incident and we should learn from it as much as we can. We knew a long time ago that serious danger was brewing. For economic reasons, we ignored this danger for a long time and, today, tens of thousands of victims are suffering and dying. Now we are attempting to protect ourselves. Tomorrow, however, those who refused to see what was before their eyes will have to justify themselves to their victims and provide them with compensation. Over and above the new protection measures taken, I hope this asbestos tragedy will serve as a lesson to those who treat lightly the risks posed by certain products, by new types of production, genetic manipulation and the unlimited creation of new magnetic fields, to mention but a few well-known examples. In other words, when reason fails, we must invoke legal, or even criminal, liability. That is why I voted for the Damião report.. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in April 2003, when there was the debate at first reading of the Liese report, I spoke then on behalf of my group on this important issue. On that occasion I mentioned three principles, which led me to reject many amendments. The first principle was that the draft directive had a scope that should not, above all, be extended, in particular so as not to reopen the debate on embryonic stem cell research, or even on voluntary abortion. The second principle: although, of course, there have to be strict ethical rules, there should not be any religious or sectarian bans of whatever origin. The third principle: the human body is not for sale, not to be bought and not to be stolen. At the time, the European Parliament broadly followed these principles when voting, thus leaving authors of amendments that could be described as reactionary in the objective sense of the word in the minority. During the preparation for the second reading, the rapporteur, Mr Liese, true to his ideas and as pugnacious as ever, once again tried to extend the scope of the draft directive to reopen other debates and perhaps, one day, win the battle that he has regularly lost since the adoption of the sixth Framework Programme on Research and Development. I was therefore getting ready, this evening, for a new attack on behalf of a large majority of our fellow citizens, on behalf of many researchers, on behalf of public health and, above all, on behalf of the patients who are waiting for treatments and for transplants. Some amendments, which were, moreover, adopted in the committee, seemed to me in fact to be inappropriate, even dangerous. I am glad to see that this evening – and perhaps this is a Christmas present – the rapporteur is tabling 21 more or less satisfactory compromise amendments. Fortunately they clarify some provisions of the text. They clearly set down principles to which we attach importance: that donations are made voluntarily and without payment, although compensation is possible; Member States guarantee these donations; respect for anonymity is confirmed, with the exception of what is stated in Articles 8 and 16 which leave the matter to Member States’ legislation on the basis of subsidiarity; traceability was officially sanctioned and validated. I particularly welcome the removal of two amendments: 35, which related to abortion, and 38, which did not distinguish between therapeutic cloning and reproductive cloning. As a result, on behalf of my group, I can support the 21 compromise amendments with the Council, accompanied moreover, by some assessments of their legality, which I heard from Commissioner Byrne, and I am glad that common sense largely prevailed. I too would, therefore, like to thank the rapporteur Mr Liese, since once is not the norm here, who undoubtedly played a very positive role in drafting these compromise amendments. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I should like, first of all, to thank the Greek Presidency once again for the quality of its collaboration, and congratulate it on the work it has accomplished during a particularly eventful and difficult six months. I should also like to say, following Thessaloniki, how greatly astonished I am at the gulf which has opened up between the enthusiastic media welcome given to the sovereign proposals of Mr Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and the numerous criticisms expressed on the sidelines, or in their capital cities, by many Member States. Finally, I should like to say once again that, without a clearly-affirmed social dimension, without any real rules for urban and rural planning across Europe, without any major European public services, without the attributes of a real European citizenship which respects the need for pluralism and the real diversity of our histories, cultures and traditions, yes, without all that, Europe is condemning itself to disillusionment, a disillusionment which will no doubt, in time, prove to be fatal to its very existence. The IGC must therefore improve the draft Convention on these points, so that what is being called the new Treaty of Rome really does open the door to a European Europe, a social Europe and a Europe of citizens. . –  I differ from most other Members of the European Parliament in that I am one of those rejoicing at the failure in Cancún. This is not because I am opposed to the principle of globalisation. I am actually in favour of the theory of free movement of people and ideas. Nonetheless, I am against unregulated globalisation. In particular, I am against globalisation governed by a rigid system of economic and financial rules imposed by the strongest player. In addition, it became evident at this summit that advocates of an alternative world order have transcended the stage of outright rejection. Their thinking is developing and truly alternative proposals are emerging. Hence my refusal to put my name to a resolution too heavily weighted towards regretting the failure. This latest alarm call was needed. The main world leaders must be made to understand at last that they will never again enjoy full and absolute freedom. They will no longer have a free hand to impose their ideas and practices on the rest of the world. I voted in favour of the joint resolution tabled by the Left, which was in line with the social movement and against unbridled globalisation. Our resolution was rejected – but only just – in favour of a Liberal-Conservative text which goes against the demands of those people who demonstrated at Porto Alegre and Davos. Our European Parliament has once again confirmed that the majority of its Members are on the Right. We should not forget this when we come to prepare for the European elections of June 2004! . – Although we cannot deny that some progress has been made with regard to the rules governing air traffic control, the will, re-stated by the Commissioner responsible for this dossier, to speed up the liberalisation of air transport services entails risks which have been clearly expressed by the relevant trade unions. Unfortunately, they have not been heard sufficiently, not to mention listened to, except by a few left-wing Members. We cannot, however, believe that the effects of liberalisation are solely positive. We need only observe the sad deterioration of rail transport services in certain Member States since their liberalisation. What was initially proposed was the introduction of competition separating service providers (operators) and regulators (establishment of and compliance with rules). Under pressure, the Commission has fortunately had to review its text, which is still mediocre and dangerous. Air navigation services will, therefore, be liberalised, resulting in real safety hazards. The Commission proposes, in connection with its efforts to achieve harmonisation at Community level, the introduction of a system of authorisations for the provision of air navigation services. –  Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I also cannot see how anyone could oppose the Commission’s priorities. Who could oppose the objectives of succeeding in enlargement, ensuring stability and security, firmly supporting the relaunch of the economy and employment, controlling globalisation and ensuring that the resulting benefits are redistributed as widely as possible taking account of Kyoto, Monterrey and Johannesburg, not forgetting a knowledge-based society, developing research with increased appropriations and better interaction between science and society. I must, however, admit to you my concern over the deepening abyss between the stated objectives, on the one hand, and the means implemented in order to achieve them and therefore the results that will arise from them, on the other. Moreover, in European public opinion polls, this is often what destroys the European ideal. How can we succeed in enlargement without taking account of the diversity of the candidate countries – thereby better recognising the diversity of the current Member States – without taking sufficient account of their difficulties and needs, while at the same time we require them to succeed immediately in doing what some of the Fifteen have still not managed to do? How can we ensure security and also combat crime while limiting ourselves to a ‘Great Wall of China’ or ‘Berlin Wall’ type strategy, in other words substantially communitarising the acceptance and immigration rules in a realistic but humane way throughout the Union? How can we boost employment when free competition and the free market are detrimental to public services as a whole and when jobs are still considered a variable to be adjusted to benefit companies and when we attach more importance to financial, accounting and monetary concerns rather than to the economy and employment? How, lastly, can we control globalisation when the USA dominates the world in political and military terms and when large industrial and financial groups take care of the rest – often, moreover – under the control of the USA and large world stock exchanges? I do not know what the future holds for the Johannesburg conclusions, but I am fully aware of the way in which some have treated the Kyoto conclusions. Before concluding, I shall ask the question that I would have liked to ask when research was mentioned: the Council has imposed a moratorium on stem cells. What will happen at the end of 2003 if the Council does not manage to reach an agreement on the ethical issues relating to these hundreds of millions of euros in appropriations? I repeat, I share the Commission’s objectives. I cannot believe, however, that they will be achieved more successfully in 2003 than in 2002 or 2001, unless the necessary financial and political means are provided. The good qualities of the Commission and the Commissioners are not in question – the problem runs deeper than that. It is the whole problem of the European and world framework, the place of social issues, human issues and citizens. There is, in fact, a certain amount of discord among us on this point. . When a large number of parties on the extreme right start gaining power in Europe, or come within a whisker of doing so, it is high time we considered why this is happening and what disastrous consequences it will have for our democracies. Nevertheless, the traditional political parties continue to follow their own agenda, without questioning what they do, while sharing out the top jobs amongst themselves. Nevertheless, economists, governments and the European Commission continue their relentless pursuit of ever more liberalism. Economic 'rigour' is not the right response, despite it being one of the conditions of having a global policy which is closer to the people. Liberalism could have advantages to offer in some sectors, but only if it is managed and regulated. Above all, today's broad economic guidelines need to be completely revised if we are to eradicate unemployment and poverty. I do not recognise this objective in the documents we have before us. – The trend of the votes on the recitals, paragraphs and amendments of the Herzog report is a perfect illustration, even a caricature, of the weight of liberalism and the single market, and of their precedence over all other considerations in modern-day Europe. Paraphrasing Jean de la Fontaine, it could be said of the large parties and political forces of the European Parliament, that ‘nobody died from them, but they affected everyone ‘ For a large majority in Parliament, and therefore much of institutional Europe, public service is at best a commodity like any other when it is not ‘a barrier’ to the happiness money brings. I therefore voted against this report without any uncertainty or hesitation. We should remember that coal and steel were part of the original construction of Europe. At the end of the war, the six founder States decided to pool their coal and steel production. Thus it was that, on 18 April 1951, the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC Treaty) saw the light of day. The ECSC Treaty was concluded for a period of fifty years, starting from the date of its entry into force. Consequently, it will expire on 23 July 2002. It was planned that, once the Treaty had expired, steel and coal would be treated like any other industrial product, particularly with regard to competition policy. However, it is clear that, in the absence of any financial support measures, most of the European coal industry would be sentenced to disappear in the very short term. In fact, the greater part of Community coal production remains, and would have to remain, non-competitive in relation to third-country imports. The Green Paper on security of energy supply has taken these facts into consideration. It envisages preserving a minimum production capacity, because coal is still an important source of home-produced energy which is available in the long term and is stable and secure. Mr President, Commissioners, I wish to take up the thrust of the speech by Mrs Corbey, with whom I worked on drawing up a programme under Article 169 of the EC Treaty relating to the Sixth Framework Programme, for Research and Development on diseases prevalent in the countries of the southern hemisphere. She asked you about the difficulty of attracting researchers to this field. You replied that Commissioner Busquin could have given us further answers on the matter. Without wishing to put words into the Commissioner’s mouth, I simply wish to say that there appears to be very little enthusiasm in the private sector for contributing to the amount of appropriations earmarked for the programme I have just referred to, under Article 169. Since you work together, you might perhaps know about this: could you confirm or deny the information that I have in this field concerning the lack of private funds raised to implement this programme to combat Aids, malaria and tuberculosis? Do you also have information about whether States have agreed to this programme and consequently whether public funds are being harnessed? Since the European Parliament voted for this report at first reading, we have not had much news. This question stretches the scope of today’s debate, but it involves the same issues and, this being the case, I would be extremely grateful for any answer you might be able to give me. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look carefully at a resolution on human rights that has no less than 56 recitals and 197 paragraphs, after consideration of 284 amendments in committee, we have many contrasting impressions. I will mention a few of them: does the report make sense, is it useful, are the points raised given adequate priority, are they always confirmed, what role is played by its main errors, by the choice of press agencies and by the media? Nor can we forget political preferences. What can we say to those who assert that the underlying ideology is that of the rich and powerful countries, which judge others according to their interests and their criteria without always applying the same standards at home? The attitude of the United States provides us with an illustration that is more than a caricature in this area: treatment of its prisoners, refusal to accept the ICC, preventive war, death penalty, etc. I am stopping there a list that is by no means complete and to which everyone could add. As regards overall usefulness and validity, each person must make up their own mind. Personally, in spite of many doubts, I have nevertheless concluded that this report is useful and I congratulate my colleague Mr van den Bos. Having stated this, we must then go into more detail to measure and to weigh up the gaps and the excesses that are wrongly included in the report and those, also wrongly, that are missing. My colleague Mrs Pernille Frahm and I tabled nine amendments in committee, seven of which were adopted, and of the 27 amendments in plenary, eight were adopted by the members of my group. This is evidence of our interest and thus our belief that this report is useful. Finally, you will see that not one of us, and I mean not one of us, will agree with everything that is adopted. I, personally, could list all of the points that bother me and those with which I disagree. In my opinion, in spite of everything and without denying the negative, the positive prevails and I am prepared to vote in favour of this report, unless it is distorted as a result of certain votes. I do still have some concerns regarding the desire on the part of some people to replace freedom of conscience with religious freedom and some other fears regarding certain political links. Other colleagues will make different choices, including Members within my own group; that is democracy. The most important thing, and I must emphasise this, is the need to wholeheartedly defend human rights, all human rights, including economic and social rights, throughout the world. Yes, I stress that we must defend them in every country, without exception! I am very pleased with this European Commission proposal. Up until now, there has in fact been no specific legislation applicable to the extractive industries. The existing directives were used, in particular the framework directive on waste and the landfill directive. That was not really satisfactory, however, especially since the extractive industries produce large amounts of waste. It is easy to imagine the chain of harmful effects on the environment that might flow from bad management. It was therefore high time that these activities were regulated and the specific needs of the sector met. Generally speaking, the extractive industries view this proposal favourably. I know that some differences have emerged concerning the classification of waste. The most important thing is to establish criteria for determining which kinds of waste are hazardous and which are not. It is also important to look to the future and encourage research into more sustainable production that produces less waste. I also support the creation of a financial guarantee to pay for the rehabilitation of sites after closure. . Having praised Mr Rocard for his excellent report, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the importance of that annual European scheme which puts a European city in the spotlight in the name of culture. It remains necessary for Europe certainly and, above all, the nominated city, to provide themselves with the human and financial resources for the scheme. Lille in 2004 gives us a perfect and remarkable illustration of this being done. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 November 2001, Parliament adopted, by a very broad majority, my report on the Sixth Framework Programme (FP6) for research, technological development and demonstration activities. We retained the structure, the principles and the philosophy of Commissioner Busquin’s plan and enhanced these aspects with contributions by citizens from the research community so as to better respond to the aspirations of the European people. On 10 December 2001, the Research Council responded, in an extraordinary manner, to many of our requests and proposals. Since then, we have continued to work together to clarify some points and to further improve the framework programme in close collaboration with Commissioner Busquin and his staff as well as the Council Presidency and Mr Marimón Suñol. Everyone has made an effort, everyone has listened to and tried to understand each other; to work around others’ limitations and to seek compromise. On 23 April 2002, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy adopted 90 amendments, 30 of which will be included in the specific programmes. We requested further clarification on the instruments for the implementation of the programme, on the aid to SMEs and on micro enterprises. We emphasised research, sustainable development and the reduction of external environmental costs. We reiterated our commitment to basic research. Lastly, we stressed the importance of research in the fields of health and combating major diseases, whilst bearing in mind everything which affects human and social research. Before and after these votes, several informal and formal three-way meetings enabled us to reconcile the various points of view. The administrative and technical teams of the three institutions, the MEPs concerned and their assistants have worked tirelessly. And on 7 May, during a lengthy and particularly productive three-way meeting, we reached agreements involving 34 compromise amendments that the Committee on Industry approved last night, almost unanimously, thus giving me the go-ahead, as rapporteur, to substitute them for the amendments adopted on 23 April. On the more delicate subject of ethical considerations, a broad agreement was reached, enabling the Commission to confirm the limits that must not be exceeded in this area, which means the Council can take these into account and that everything can be included in the specific programmes. Commissioner Busquin is expected to confirm this later. We are now on the verge of finally adopting the FP6, as the Council has already given us its written approval of the 34 compromise amendments that you are to vote on tomorrow. I would like to conclude by once again thanking the Belgian Presidency which enabled us to adopt a very positive common position on 10 December 2001. I would again like to thank Commissioner Busquin and his staff, who have been open to our views, shown understanding and respect for Parliament and proposed imaginative solutions. I would also like to thank Chairman Westendorp and the entire secretariat of the Committee on Industry, the administrators and secretariats of the political groups and my assistant, Gaëlle Le Bouler. I extend my warm thanks to my colleagues who have worked with me on this matter for a year and a half, the shadow rapporteurs, the coordinators, the draftsmen, which include Mr van Velzen, Mr Piétrasanta, Mr Alyssandrakis, Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel and also Mrs McNally. I would thank in particular, the Spanish Presidency and Mr Marimón Suñol who have been open to our views and given a great deal of their time, something which is particularly deserving of our gratitude and praise. Ladies and gentlemen, I have almost come to an end, with what will no doubt be my last major European report, after 13 years as an MEP. I left the French Socialist Party six months ago, and will be standing in the legislative elections in France, as a candidate of the ‘’ [Forum of the Citizens’ Left], up against a Socialist Party candidate. Either I will be elected and will leave the House, or I will be defeated and the Socialist Party will inevitably dismiss me from the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Whatever happens, my life will be completely transformed and that is why I am pleased to close this chapter of my political life, having contributed to the creation of an excellent European research programme which, with a budget of EUR 17.5 billion, is the third largest European policy. Today, 14 May 2002, I would like to express my genuine pride, and to praise Europe’s scientific community with which I have worked closely and to thank once again all my colleagues and their counterparts who have helped and supported me over the last year and a half. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in our debate, I have one minute on behalf of my delegation to accomplish three things. First of all, to congratulate the Greek Presidency, which, in a troubled and difficult period for Europe, has achieved a great deal, showing once again that there is no correlation between the size of a country and the quality of its European presidency. Secondly, to note that the management of the serious European and world events in the past six months has shown the limits of an economic Europe that is too liberal in its foundations and not sufficiently democratic in its functioning. Lastly, in particular, to call once again for political debate towards another Europe, a social, people’s Europe, nourished by its diversity, rather than a Europe that seeks to banish this diversity. We need a Europe that concentrates its actions on the real problems of its citizens, primarily including employment and unemployment, public services and a social Europe, the means to internal security and external security, and an easier daily life for European citizens, in all aspects. All in all, as Mr Wurtz has shown, but also as Mr Barón Crespo and many representatives of smaller groups have called for, we need a European citizens’ Europe. –  Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I wish to begin my speech on Trans-European Networks in the energy sector by reminding you once again and quite forcefully, that energy is not a product like any other and that the market cannot be the main force regulating it. Security of supply is a prerequisite for the political independence of our countries and of Europe. This security requires a diversification of energy sources and will involve major long term, not to say extremely long-term investment. Energy is, furthermore, an important factor in land-use planning and falls entirely within the field of public services in the truest sense of the word. I would add that we must always bear in mind that when we talk about energy and about transport networks that, whereas new infrastructures must be created, existing infrastructures must also be reorganised in order to make better use of them. Lastly, there must be – and I wish to express this forcefully – an obsession with the environment in all its dimensions: the visual dimension, pollution, and the despoliation of resources, not forgetting the issue of waste. Incidentally, with regard to the report by Mr Beysen, whom I congratulate on his work, I can state my broad agreement with the proposals that have been made. We must in fact improve and extend the energy transport networks and, by means of studies and investment, support the implementation of the least profitable ones where they are needed. The internal market in energy is necessary but what it needs more than deregulation is investment throughout the Union, especially in the least accessible and least densely populated regions. No one would deny that the interlinking of networks is necessary. Let us not forget, however, that we need energy to put into these networks and a number of conditions must be met if we are to achieve that. Lastly, I wish to confirm the importance to us of renewable energies, of research in this field and of the public investment needed for its development. I must also admit that I do not fully understand the connection that some people wish to make between this aim of developing renewable energies and a liberal approach that often leads to a quest for the lowest cost in the short term, without worrying about the consequences in the medium and long term. To conclude, whilst remaining critical of the liberal principles that I believe are dangerous for Europe’s energy independence and for small consumers, not forgetting the least-favoured regions, I believe that the Commission guidelines on the Trans-European Networks are a step in the right direction and, as they stand, I thank you for them, Commissioner. .My position in this debate is clear. First of all, the current CAP is certainly not perfect. It is costly and at times unfair. Despite that, it is because of that CAP that agriculture still exists today in Europe. Secondly, the CAP undoubtedly has to be reformed in order to adapt to the current situation in Europe and worldwide. It needs to be better targeted towards the objectives of quality, the environment and maintaining rural employment. What is being proposed, however, which is cleverly disguised in the garments of justice and ecology (in the name of the famous ‘decoupling’) will inevitably lead to the disappearance of the CAP ten years from now and, in its wake, to the disappearance of real, diversified and self-sufficient European agriculture. This is why I cannot accept the proposals that have been put to us. This is an own initiative report by the European Parliament on the Commission proposal to progressively open up the market in the motor vehicle industry. In September 2002, the block exemption from competition rules granted to the motor vehicle industry comes to an end. This Commission proposal would have to apply until 2010. It is intended to sever the link between distributor and manufacturer, to authorise the sale of vehicles of different brands on the same premises, to allow vehicle maintenance and repairs to be sub-contracted without affecting consumers’ rights, and to make it compulsory for manufacturers to supply technical information to independent garage owners, who would have access to spare parts. The Members, though agreeing, overall, with the executive committee, tabled a number of amendments intended to guarantee legal certainty for retailers and to limit the impact of total competition. Thus the report proposes several amendments to the draft regulation, concerning the link between distributors and garage owners, sales of different brands in the same place, spare parts, legal contracts, and the timetable for the application of the new system. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, speaking this morning on behalf of my group in the debate on consumers and consumer protection, I, like many of my fellow Members, would like to say once again that, although we can adhere to the European Commission’s objectives in this area – high level of protection, effective application of rules and effective participation of consumer organisations – we must once again point out that the proposals made are still far too vague and not specific enough. That is why I fully agree with the proposals made by Mr Whitehead and Mrs Patrie, in particular with regard to safety, transport, chemical substances, e-commerce and the provision of prior information in all cases in order to allow, where necessary, appropriate and effective defence and recourse mechanisms to be activated. I would also like to mention specifically the readability of the ecolabel and, in particular, the need for highly comprehensive information on GMOs which, as you are all aware, are a contentious issue for us. Lastly, I would like to stress the need for the Toys Directive and control of the CE mark. As I was rapporteur on these issues a few years ago, I know that the Toys Directive needs to be revised urgently and that, due to insufficient controls, the CE mark has in many cases become devoid of all meaning. I have also written to the Commission several times on this matter, but I regret to say that I have not received a satisfactory response. Incidentally, at this stage of the debate on consumer protection and policy, I would also like to express very clearly two concerns in the form of basic criticisms. My first concern is that, whatever their advantages, consumer protection policies are too closely linked to, and therefore overly dependent on, the objective of accelerated creation of a single market. These policies are only rarely objectives in themselves and tend, for the most part, to be a result of free competition. My second concern is that these policies are frequently, if not always, a pretext for erasing, suffocating, or even abolishing the concept of public service, even though this is far broader than consumer protection as it applies in the long term, which involves solidarity and land use planning, in particular through pricing and access conditions. In some countries and some political groups, the best upholders of consumer protection are often those who do most harm to public services, acting in the name of free competition and the dominance of the private sector. This morning, I therefore wanted to point out these fundamental differences or even divergences, while welcoming the efforts made by the European Commission and supporting our rapporteurs’ proposals. .I explained during the plenary debate why I supported this report and the link with the research programme for which I am the rapporteur, a programme that has been given EUR 600 million. I hope that we will reach an agreement with the Commission and the Council on Parliament’s request to increase loans and on the issue of access to costs and prices that take account of the poverty of patients in Southern countries. I have supported, and voted in favour of, this report which acknowledges the efforts made by a number of European states to ensure that Europe now has policies concerned with space. The results obtained are impressive. For all that, if, now, there is a desire to avoid serious difficulties and a situation in which, in the end, only the law of the strongest continues to apply, rapid progress needs to be made towards a controlled communitisation, as is being done in the field of research. It is not a question of ‘doing in place of’, but of enabling European added value to be brought to bear. Space will be ever more present in all aspects of people’s daily lives. Europe needs to be in space. Space will always be an engine of industrial innovation. Europe’s industrial future also depends, therefore, upon our investment in space. Those are just a few of the reasons why I have supported this report and voted in favour of it. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when many people are rightly condemning a war that has already killed hundreds of people, I would like to start my speech this morning with some equally appalling figures. Over 40 million people are now carrying the HIV virus, 36 million of them in developing countries and 28 million in sub-Saharan Africa alone. Malaria, a disease that reappeared in the 1970s, kills around one million people a year. Lastly, there are now 8 million cases of tuberculosis, with 2 million deaths a year, 1.9 million of those in countries of the South. These three terrible diseases, which are incidentally by no means the only ones to be decimating the populations of poor countries, militate against the development of the countries affected and keep them in a state of poverty which, in turn, prevents them from setting up a health system worthy of the name. Humanity must break this vicious and fatal circle if it wishes to survive. It was with these appalling facts in mind – and in their hearts – that the Commission, Commissioner Busquin, the European Parliament and the Council agreed upon and drew up a programme of EUR 600 million under the Sixth Framework Programme on Research and Development, for which I was appointed general rapporteur. This involves putting in place a new instrument under Article 169 – and this is a first, as the Commissioner has reminded us – with the financial participation of several Member States, Norway, the Commission, and, we hope, the private sector. I am delighted, and proud, to have been appointed rapporteur and I wish to sincerely thank my colleagues in my new group for entrusting me with this new task, and also to thank all the other Members who gave me their help, not to mention the members of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, and my assistant. From the outset, we worked collectively and diligently. This House, which received the proposal from the Commission on 28 August 2002, acted swiftly and the ITRE Committee discussed it on three occasions, on 7 October, 11 November and 2 December 2002, before voting on this report and its amendments on 23 January 2003, that is to say within six months, taking into account the opinions of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, represented by Mrs Sandbæk, in accordance with the enhanced Hughes procedure, of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, represented by Mrs Evans, and of the Committee on Budgets, represented by Mr Hudghton. Following those votes, a trialogue meeting was held with the Commission and the Greek Presidency in Strasbourg on 11 February. I therefore worked quickly, stressing the importance of a North-South partnership and focussing our action on clinical trials and on the reception structures that needed to be built up in the countries of the South, and in particular in the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. It was important to avoid over-extending the scope of the programme and the consequent risk of lessening its impact. We need to heed the first victims of these terrible diseases and the people who are helping them to fight them. We need to develop new products adapted to the needs of the populations of these countries and to take them into account when we define priorities. Lastly, and above all, we need to act quickly. At the trialogue meeting on 11 February 2003, we called on the Council to add a reference to other infectious diseases in a new recital. We called for provisions on easy access to these new products. We also called for the involvement of the NGOs and of the WHO, and, lastly, some Members called for more sustained appeals to be made to the private sector. I immediately went on to thank and recognise the role of the Greek Presidency, the Council and the Commission, and my fellow Members were satisfied with the extent to which our requests were taken on board by the Council. We accordingly drafted compromise amendments, which of course involved everyone making certain concessions, so as to come to an overall agreement at first reading. I therefore invite you to support those amendments today, even though I recognise that some points are unsatisfactory, and I have certain reservations myself. But we need to make decisions quickly if we are going to act quickly. Every day that passes thousands of men, women and children die of these diseases. Yes, we need to act quickly and to do everything to make this programme a success, so that it can serve as an example and open up the way to other programmes of the same type for other diseases also associated with poverty. Those diseases may be less well known and perhaps of less interest to the media, but they are just as terrible and just as destructive of lives and consequently of societies. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my task this evening is a simple one: it is to give you an account of the unanimous votes in the ITRE Committee in favour of my report for opinion and all of my amendments, apart from one, in relation to the Council's common position of 3 April 2003. As everyone has said, the Council took a great deal of time to reach this agreement, since the Commission's initial proposal dates back to 1997 and Mr Pat Cox's report to 1999. Despite this, we agreed to play ball and treat this as a matter of urgency given that it is clearly in the general European interest to do so. Although there are many areas with which I and my fellow Members are dissatisfied, as rapporteur, so as not to threaten the agreement in the Council, I only proposed amendments that enhance that agreement. Although the agreement reached by the Council does not go as far as the Commission's 1997 proposal or the European Parliament's vote in 1999, it still remains a first step, in my view and that of my fellow Members, towards establishing a common framework for taxation in Europe. The amendments adopted by unanimity improve it by providing for time limits for exemptions, so that the exemptions do not become the rule; by specifying units of measurement and by reinforcing the political signal in favour of biofuels. I dare to hope therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that when Mr Jonckheer's report is put to the vote tomorrow the plenary will confirm an agreement that is for the time being, admittedly, minimalist, by seeing it as part of an ongoing process to serve the interests of the environment in Europe. – Madam President, I am pleased to be able to speak this evening about this particularly important, even vital, matter, in the true meaning of the term. I am pleased on behalf of my group, the GUE/NGL Group, but also personally, as someone who has long been a staunch advocate of blood donation and a blood donor. Blood donations, as many will know, have an incomparable human dimension, which concerns us all. First of all, I shall state some telling figures. They only concern France, I am afraid, but I would imagine they could generally be applied to most of the Member States of the Union. In France, 8 000 donations are required every day to save 60 000 lives each year and carry out 800 000 transfusions. The victim of a road accident might need the participation of ten to thirty people to ensure their survival, and yet only 5% of people give blood. We are therefore entitled to ask why there are so few blood donors. I know the European Commission understood – and I thank it for that – a fundamental part of the problem when defining the objective of its proposal for December 2000. Its aim is to increase public confidence in the safety of blood and blood products and thus achieve self-sufficiency within the European Union. I shall not speak tonight about the contaminated blood scandals, which understandably shook this confidence and which, furthermore, brought down some political leaders who sinned through lack of vigilance, not to say incompetence. Without forgiving or forgetting anything, I would prefer to concentrate on three questions. What must we do now to restore this confidence? How can we encourage people to give blood more frequently and persuade more people to give? Thirdly, does the solution not lie in the remuneration of donors, as certain European States already practise this system? In response to this last question, I would say straight away that the answer, for me, is ‘no’. Definitely not. Blood and blood products are not goods. Incidentally, I would note that some people, here and there, and even in this Parliament, who vehemently defend ethical principles on matters relating to human genetics, have no problem defending the option of payment being given for blood, and therefore payment being given for the human body. I shall say no more for now, as I do not want to get angry. I must also, however, refer to the sickening trafficking that takes place in countries where people have no other means of survival but to sell blood or other organs. That is why we must stand firm on this matter, in order to avoid any deviation, scandal or attack on human dignity and the ethical principles we share and hold dear. Blood donations must therefore remain based on the principles of free consent, anonymity and benevolence. I feel this is something that should not even be up for discussion. Of course, we must distinguish between remuneration for blood as such and reimbursement of costs incurred in order to give blood: refreshments and snacks, reimbursement of transport costs, and time taken from work to give blood. The proposal put forward in this area is along the right lines. It has been strengthened and clarified to very positive effect by the European Parliament. I shall take this opportunity to congratulate Professor Nisticò warmly on the quality of his work. Lastly, it is important to emphasise certain essential points: blood quality and safety standards, more stringent specifications on the acceptability of blood and plasma donors, and testing of blood donations in the European Community. In conclusion, I would say that, in terms of the points that were the subject of contention, I can accept the results obtained through the conciliation procedure with regard to the guarantee of traceability and the quality of the staff directly involved in collection, testing, processing and storage. For all these reasons, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can vote in favour of this report and would call on you to do the same. It is our responsibility to help increase public awareness of this gesture, which saves the lives of tens of thousands of people each year, a gesture that could be more common in future, so that our needs can be met in a human and ethical manner. . –  As we take stock, five years after the European employment strategy was implemented, and before the 2003 guidelines on employment are finally adopted, it is important to reiterate that unemployment is still a scourge, and that it is the main cause of social exclusion. That is why several things must be done: we must call on the Commission to analyse the causes of the weak economic growth in the Union and to put forward proposals with a view to encouraging genuine and meaningful growth in order to increase the number of jobs. Regarding the method, we must strengthen the role of the national parliaments in the drafting of national action plans; we must give the European Parliament a role, as part of the co-decision process, on questions relating to employment under the open coordination method, and we must also involve the social partners more closely. Regarding the substance, we should emphasise the development of local and regional labour markets in order to boost initiatives designed to attract productive investments and to encourage economic balance, social cohesion and job creation in the least-developed areas and regions. We must also consider how to improve the integration of legal immigrants in the labour market. In 1992, when our Community declared it was moving beyond the economic dimension to become a Union, its treaty stated that ‘the Union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law, principles which are common to the Member States’. Article 7 provides safeguard mechanisms. The sad Austrian episode in 1999 caused us to think again about the effectiveness of those instruments. Amendments were subsequently adopted, but they did not go far enough. We can therefore be pleased at the Commission’s initiative. Like the rapporteur, however, I think the Commission is on the wrong track in basing its strategy only on prevention. Prevention must be combined with penalties. A risk of breach of fundamental rights is very difficult to define. I advocate a broad definition, to include, for example, a Member State’s failure to deal with human rights violations (racism, anti-Semitism), the discriminatory impoverishment of population groups, serious restrictions on the freedom of the press. . The aim here is to simplify the rules governing the organisation of driving times and rest periods within the Union in order to increase road safety and improve working conditions for the people covered by the regulation. This proposal also aims to make the current rules compatible with the use of new digital recording equipment in order to improve compliance with the rules in force. Mr Markov’s report is along the same lines as the positive proposals by the European Commission: removing the possibility of dividing breaks, reducing exemptions, repealing measures concerning a minimum age for drivers, and introducing more stringent penalties for infringement of the rules. The rapporteur, however, has also succeeded in introducing amendments which I consider to be crucial. The report rejects provisions concerning the flexible week, increases controls and penalties in cases of non-compliance with the provisions of the regulation, and increases the participation of social partners. On the other hand, the rapporteur did not achieve a vote in favour of the amendment rightly proposing to reduce the working week to 45 hours. It was therefore tabled again in plenary and I naturally voted for it! –  Mr President, I would not want to abuse this kind of intervention either, but I am shocked by the comments of the Member sitting in front of me. Combating terrorism has certainly placed all the security services under great pressure, but, if I have understood the translation correctly, comparing the French riot police to the SS, in this House, seems to me to be profoundly shocking. I wanted to make that clear. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor this morning as a new and very recent non-attached Member, having been expelled from the Group of the Party of European Socialists at the request of French Socialist Party. Incidentally, and everyone is well aware of this, as I take the floor to speak on a subject which I believe to be crucially important, that of employment, I am still a man of the Left and a Socialist in the broadest sense of the word. First of all, I would like to thank the European Commission for its communication which, despite not being revolutionary, contains firm proposals, which are capable of moving things forward in the right direction. In an ultra-liberal world, this is a very important sign. I would of course also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Herman Schmid, on the high quality of his work and for the interest and the relevance of many of his proposals to which I subscribe and which have my very strong support. Since this is the case, I would also like to reiterate just as firmly that, in addition to the firm proposals made by the Commission and those by the rapporteur, the important, essential, even vital thing to do is to put employment back at the heart of everything, and at each and every level. Whilst employment provides all citizens with a purpose, unemployment, on the other hand, can be devastating, isolating and very often destructive. In a world where employment is too often considered to be “an adjustment variable of so-called efficiency and of the very real quest for profit”, it is high time that we re-established our priorities and reaffirmed at all levels that full employment is our number-one goal. From now on, and because, naturally, there is no miracle cure in the field of employment and since words alone are not enough, we must combine, increase and diversify the initiatives we take at all levels in order to achieve this goal. What we must do, of course, is take initiatives and introduce regulations at world level. At European level, we need to pursue an innovative industrial policy, a research policy and a strong social policy. We must also implement national social policies which put employment above all other considerations. And developments in recent months have meant that many European countries are further away from reaching this goal. We must, at long last, devise local policies that involve businesses, local government, associations, trade unions and citizens. These policies will allow new jobs to be created that are as close to the ground as possible. They will allow jobs to be created for people who are often on the margins of society or in difficulty. They will, lastly, allow us to combine jobs, salaries, services and quality of life. The European Commission and the rapporteur are moving forward along this path by making firm proposals. I repeat that I subscribe to them and support them, and that we must implement them swiftly now, whilst resisting the temptation to believe that everything can be resolved at local level. The fight against a rampant form of globalisation, a Europe that is purely liberal and national policies subjected to stock market and finance injunctions affects the success of local employment policies. I am sure that the rapporteur is aware of these issues, but I wanted to use my speaking time this morning to repeat these very clearly. .The summer heatwave and the thousands of deaths it caused confirmed one thing in Europe and the developing countries, something of which the 30 000 people who die each day of illness linked to a lack of drinking water remind us: water is the most crucial problem threatening humanity. Climate change will make this situation worse. It is therefore urgently necessary that mass action plans are drawn up, targeted and financed. Mr Lannoye and the Committee on Development and Cooperation have given us some minimal proposals, which we must quickly implement. The Brussels European Council promised to be a lacklustre affair, with few hopes pinned on it. The statements made to us by the Presidency of the Council and the European Commission confirmed the across-the-board mediocrity of a Council unequal to what was at stake, particularly in the social and employment spheres. Regarding the IGC and the draft Constitution, it has unfortunately been confirmed that the debates, and, therefore, the possible last minute compromises, relate, and will relate, solely to the weighting of the votes in the Council and to the number of European Commissioners. We are very far from the genuine social issues and issues of citizenship that would necessitate a new constitutional framework, different from the liberal framework characterising the draft presented by Valéry Giscard d'Estaing. Even when modified at the margins, I do not warm to the draft as it stands. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning’s debate follows a turbulent period in which the world of computer users, inventors and innovators has been fighting tooth and nail to protect its right to difference, freedom and creativity. At the heart of this debate is patentability, with its advantages (when the patent rightly protects the inventor) and its major disadvantages, which involve often conservative monopolies being established to the detriment of young creators. Personally, I still support this movement, which I believe follows the same approach as all alternative movements fighting for a less rigid and less commercial society. Since this debate opened, we have scored points by tabling proposals for amendments that substantially improve the original draft. Recognising that in order to be patentable, a computer-implemented invention must have an industrial application is a step in the right direction. A statement to the effect that patents must not be granted for simple computer programs was needed. Nevertheless, we cannot ignore the shades of meaning that have been introduced as well as the excessive vagueness. At this point in the debate, even at the risk of seeing these amendments fail to receive the vote or then fail to be included, we must state that not all problems have been solved, by any stretch of the imagination. I personally shall, therefore, be vigilant during voting and I remain willing to vote against the draft if the improvements prove to be nothing more than a cosmetic attempt to conceal the hold that large companies have over creative minds. In this regard, Commissioner Bolkestein’s last sentence, which smacks of blackmail, does nothing to alleviate my deep suspicion. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the European Commission for their lists of good intentions, which I am sure they will do everything to implement. Personally, I would like to concentrate on employment and on the objective of full employment which I think should be the prime, if not sole objective of the European Union, as all other objectives are only consequences of it. This applies to equality between men and women, the progress of social harmonisation, maintaining and developing public services, establishing sustainable development, etc. Full employment requires that the Stability and Growth Pact be reviewed, made more flexible and improved, that social partners be respected and listened to, that companies that make redundancies solely in order to make a profit be penalised, in particular when they have had public subsidies, that the European Council makes a major commitment and the research efforts be increased. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever some people think, the old liberal recipes have failed. Not enough jobs are being created, the Lisbon objectives have not been achieved and enlargement could aggravate the situation for the Fifteen and also for the ten new Member States that are soon going to join us. So yes, we need to make full employment almost the sole objective of the Union. I sincerely believe that it is vital for our future, which is why I wanted to say it again here, this morning, seriously and forcefully. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if there is something particularly remarkable about our rapporteur Mr Liese, apart from his intelligence and the amount of work he does, it is surely his pugnacity. When we debated the sixth framework programme, he fought against all research on embryonic stem cells. He lost. When, a few weeks after Parliament’s vote, the Council of Ministers wrongfully froze the research funds set aside for this purpose, he inherited a report on the same subject and, while pretending to seek compromises, set about tabling amendments to prevent practically all research in this area. Roundly beaten in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, he left his name on a report that he wished to see rejected and that had been adopted against his advice. Mr Liese is, therefore, returning to plenary this evening with the same intentions. Faced with his efforts, there is only one reasonable and balanced way forward and that is to support the Commission’s compromise text, a text that is fairly close to the compromise that was agreed by our Parliament when it adopted the sixth framework programme. To do so, we need to vote against all those amendments that distort it by changing the scope of application. My position, summed up in three points, is as follows: firstly, to respect those who do not want this kind of research to be undertaken in their country; secondly, to refuse a European right to veto those who wish to, and indeed do, undertake this kind of research; thirdly, to restate our firm objective of funding research that seeks to save those suffering from incurable diseases and bring relief to those enduring intolerable pain. That then is the position that I am adopting this evening on behalf of my group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, and the approach that we would like to see being taken. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity – at first reading – to express my views on this important subject and I am therefore pleased to be able to speak again this evening. I would like to start by personally thanking my friend and colleague, Mrs McNally, for the high quality of her report and for the way she has conducted negotiations with the Council. I have known her for a long time and I would like to pay tribute to her for her hard work, although I sometimes, or often, rather, disagree with the liberal lines taken by some of her friends. Also on a personal note, I would like to tell Mrs de Palacio that, although she has never replied to my question on what I consider to be a contradiction between free competition seeking to force prices down and the undeniable need to save energy, I appreciate her work as Commissioner responsible for energy, her indisputable abilities and her willingness to listen. To turn to the content now, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, I would point out that the ‘Intelligent Energy for Europe’ programme, covering the period 2003 to 2006, replaces a programme which expired on 31 December 2002. That explains the urgent need for us to come to an agreement and find the best possible compromise. It is no surprise that the most heated debates were on the question of the budget. I want once again to lament the fact that, all too often at European level, in very many fields, we are unable to provide ourselves with funding which is commensurate to our goals. I have said it time and time again in this House and elsewhere. In this case, it is all the more regrettable in that a mid-term assessment of the current programme has revealed that the current specific programmes have suffered from a serious lack of resources. In the end, after a number of tripartite meetings, the Council and Parliament succeeded in achieving a compromise of the sum of EUR 200 million, although the Council had been holding out for a sum of EUR 190 million. It is too little, even though it is better than nothing. As has been said, the sum will be divided between four specific programmes: energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy sources, energy aspects of transport, and the promotion of renewable energies and energy efficiency in the developing countries. I endorse these headings and I stress the need for action in these areas. Again with regard to the content, the Council has accepted most of Parliament’s amendments: the inclusion of the candidate countries, the dissemination of the programmes and access thereto and the setting of transparent criteria for selecting participants. We welcome this. However, the Council has not accepted the creation of a European Intelligent Energy Agency. I for my part, like the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, regret this. I think it would have helped us. Nor has the Council accepted the establishment of a task force within the Commission to coordinate the different areas, but Mrs de Palacio has given us a certain amount of reassurance on that point. I will end by stressing once again that energy is not just another commodity. It involves heavy, ongoing investment. It is in many respects a public service which must be protected zealously in the interest of all citizens in all senses of the word. In the future, we must save, diversify, increase security of supply and assess costs and benefits, and not just short-term costs and benefits. We must look far into the future. Demand will grow and fossil energies will decline. Public opinion is opposed to fission and so we must develop renewable energies and save energy. Lastly, and this is my last point, Mr President, we must implement what I personally consider to be the viable energy of the future, fusion, and thus launch very quickly indeed the ITER programme, very quickly indeed, Mr President. –  The vote on this report gives me an opportunity to pay tribute to that great parliamentarian, Mr Rolf Linkohr, and to acclaim the extraordinary work done by Commissioner Busquin in the course of his term of office, which is now fast nearing its end, to give research a true European dimension. From a quantitative point of view, we now need to move up a gear, to start to prepare the seventh FRDP, with a budget of EUR 30 million, and put pressure on those States that are not increasing, or are even in fact decreasing, their research spending. On this depend the future of Europe, its independence, its growth and employment in it. – Mr President, solely in terms of free competition and the free market, any aid, whether it is state aid, European aid or local aid, disrupts competition. Incidentally, I believe and would like to say that this influence on competition is positive when it enables land to be developed, the provision of efficient public services, a reduction in inequality, better social management, consideration of the long term and more research and development. By approving the approach of Mr Herzog, whom I would like to congratulate and whom I support, I therefore confirm that state aid is necessary and justified, as he says, on at least two conditions: on the one hand that it clearly and solely fulfils the objectives set in terms of amounts and duration, and on the other hand that it is transparent and that its results are monitored and evaluated. –  Mr President, I should like, personally and on behalf of my group, to congratulate the rapporteur and those of my fellow Members who sit on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, who have managed to work together efficiently to table these compromise amendments with the aim of having this report adopted in one single reading. There is no doubt that the urgent procedure was appropriate faced with the dreadful scourge of greenhouse gases and their consequences in terms of disrupting the climate, not to mention their impact on ecosystems and biodiversity. Indeed we saw their deadly effects this summer during the month of August. I would also pay tribute to the Commission, which is proposing a more binding mechanism for implementing the commitments that we made in Kyoto in 1997. I might remind you that the Protocol, which was adopted the same year and ratified by the European Union in 2002, sets objectives in terms of emissions that the contracting parties must achieve by 2012: a reduction of 8%. The reference date for measuring this reduction still remains to be specified of course, without penalising those countries that made an earlier start on reducing emissions. Latest studies to date show that, unfortunately, total emissions have been on the increase since 2000 and, if we are to believe the forecasts of the European Environment Agency for 2001, overall emissions in the European Union of the six gases deemed to be responsible for climate change are up by 1% on the year 2000. This proves that we need to strengthen the legal monitoring instrument that was implemented in the European Union through a decision in 1993, and that is the purpose of the proposal being examined and debated today. It confirms that the Member States are responsible individually for the conditions under which they participate in the Kyoto mechanism. That is a good thing, provided that effective coordination and proper monitoring are guaranteed. My group obviously welcomes the new requirements for improving the quality and accuracy of the information provided on policies and measures, including on emissions and the absorption of all greenhouse gases, as well as on the aspects relating to methodology. My group also agrees with the rules stipulating how often this information needs to be provided and it also seems to me to be essential for the Commission to table a report to Parliament and the Council following its annual assessment of anticipated progress, measured on the basis of the estimated impact of policies and measures to reduce emissions. Following the rapporteur's example, my group therefore supports the request that the decision should become immediately effective. What we are actually requesting is for this exercise to be classified as a top priority. It is the future of our earth that is at stake and all of the measures taken in other existing and future texts need to comply with the framework and standards set out in Kyoto. My position today in no way prejudges my position on the future European Constitution. In principle, I am in favour of a Constitution but I cannot, at this stage, join with those who state that the Intergovernmental Conference must not significantly change the draft prepared by the Convention. Socially speaking and in terms of the citizens Mr Giscard d'Estaing’s draft is manifestly insufficient. Moreover, a Constitution should not set the economic and political structure of the EU in stone and thus deny the public any real opportunity to change society using its democratic vote. I hope, therefore, that the IGC will make profound changes that will allow me to vote, when the time comes, in favour of the Constitution. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by personally congratulating the rapporteur on her work and the exhaustive nature of her proposals in the job-creating service sector. Some of those proposals may of course find greater support than others. As a whole, however, they will remain for me a major contribution to the matter at a time when a large number of people are hard hit by unemployment and when insecure jobs and contracts are proliferating. For all that, to make things clear, after those personal congratulations, as spokesman for the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, I have to express our reservations about the constant reference to competition, the market and its rules and also our disagreement with an over-strict application of the principle of mutual recognition in a sector that also covers public services and services of the social economy. Neither must it be forgotten, and I will be brief on this point today, that we do not consider the de-industrialisation of Europe to be inevitable, especially since, in terms of jobs, it is and will be increasingly difficult to compensate for the disappearance of industrial jobs by jobs in the service sector. Having said that and pointed it out, it is very important to note, as you did, Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, the importance of this service sector, just as it is important to identify the potential and the conditions for job creation. It is even more necessary for us to say what the real needs for services are. It is obvious in the matter of care, for children and infants, for the disabled and the elderly. For these, the service sector is essential for maintaining full citizenship irrespective of age, physical condition or health. But at this stage I want to say equally clearly that there is a need for legal, legislative or contractual controls in order to avoid abuses that result in precariousness such as exists in the US system. That is why we must upgrade the existing professions in the service sector in order to offer quality jobs with correct remuneration and working conditions. We must increase the quality of this new form of employment, part-time working as it happens, ensuring that the same high level of protection and job security is guaranteed to all workers and improving the working conditions of women. We must close the pay gap between men and women and the differences in the level of access to employment and job promotion. Finally, we must increase cooperation in the fight against undeclared work. Our rapporteur and the members of our committees have worked well. And while, like the majority of my group, I do not think that the implementation of these measures will solve all the fundamental problems of work and employment, I am, Mr President, personally in favour of every form of improvement, provided those improvements are real. .– When I spoke this morning I asked that this summit should not turn out to be a mere catalogue of good intentions and that the objective of full employment, with all the consequences that that implies, should become more or less the sole objective from which all the rest are derived. The resolution which was voted for and signed by Members on the Right and belonging to the PSE, was not acceptable, particularly since the votes had 'liberalised' it even more. I therefore voted against it. .–Breast cancer and cancer in general are a scourge which is not, in my opinion, inciting Europe and its Member States to take sufficient action in terms of research, prevention and quality of care, but also in terms of psychological monitoring of patients, who are often left alone to face this cruel illness. I therefore support everything that is done to remedy that situation, and I would like to highlight the funding that I succeeded in having adopted by the European Parliament and the Council when I drew up a report on the sixth framework programme for research and development. I therefore do of course support the excellent and relevant report by our colleague, Mrs Jöns, and her constant efforts in this respect. . –  Given the mortal danger posed to the world by the greenhouse effect, proposals that seek to improve measures taken to reduce the scale of the threat cannot be neglected. I am nevertheless one of those who think that we cannot speculate on pollution and allow the rich to buy a right to pollute from those who cannot afford to develop. That is why I voted against, and I call urgently for the speeding up of research programmes for the production of non-polluting energy. Fusion is part of it, which is why construction of ITER should begin as a matter of urgency. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who know me will not be surprised to hear me confirm this evening that, not considering energy to be just another commodity, I and my group are firmly against the new proposals to liberalise the gas and electricity markets. Despite the procedural precautions and despite the undeniable eloquence of our Commissioner and our rapporteurs, we believe that these proposals run counter to the need to save energy and, therefore, to environmental protection. They will lead to job losses and, above all, to further deterioration of public services, and to the deterioration of energy networks and price adjustments, which are land-use planning tools. They will run counter to the diversification of energy sources, even though these are becoming more and more vital. They will favour short-term vision and calculations. The logic of the internal market is thus particularly inappropriate for the energy sector. I will end by reiterating that, far from harking back to the days of state control, I am in favour of a regulated world and a future for which we have prepared. In this sense, energy is a major tool, maybe even the most important tool. Thus, I dare to hope that, mindful of what is at stake, we will ultimately, one day, progress from a simple market logic to a political vision based on the concept of citizenship which is worthy of the heritage which we will leave our children in this field. . –  I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Berenguer Fuster on his work and on his report and then say what great benefit could be derived from a European Parliament resolution which seeks to encourage employment and which recognises the need for State aid. The report says that unemployment is too high. I would add that it is a tragedy and a real disease into which we must channel all our energies! It is perfectly legitimate to use State aid to support a number of measures to combat unemployment and encourage employment. It was, incidentally, totally unacceptable to associate aid with increased labour market activity. However, since the right-wing Members voted in favour of the report, my colleagues from the Delegation of the Republican, Radical and Citizens’ Left and I had to vote against the motion. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. Speaking both personally and as a member of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, the left-wing group of the European Parliament, I would like to remind you in the clearest possible terms of the principles that must inform the assessment of this European rail package. The first principle is that rail transport is a public service. Where rail transport is still a public service, it must remain so. Where liberalisation has severely reduced its status as a public service, this must be restored. The second principle is this. Europe is a densely populated continent, with many urban areas. It also has rural and mountainous areas affected by desertification. On our continent rail transport plays an essential role in national and regional development. Only the railways can put a stop to two interrelated tendencies whose consequences are abundantly clear. On the one hand there is the unchecked concentration of people in urban areas and on the other the desertification of the countryside. Together, they are laying waste to our land. The third principle is as follows. Rail transport is the only effective answer to the rapidly rising demand to transport more and more people and goods. It is also the only answer to the apparently contradictory but equally important need to preserve our environment and increase the quality of our lives. These three principles are convergent and interlinked. These are the grounds on which my group and I oppose the compulsory privatisation of the railways. We also oppose all decisions or measures seeking to regulate the rail industry solely by market forces. Countries that went down this road are in a worse position than those that did not. They are in a worse position as lines have been closed. Worse, they have serious safety problems. I am sure you know which countries I am referring to. I need not name them. On the basis of these three principles, our group opposed what I would term Mr Jarzembowski’s compulsive desire for liberalisation. This was also the basis for our rejection of the harmonisation of the networks as proposed in the Sterckx report. We would prefer harmonisation to be less of a herald of liberalisation. We therefore endorsed the Savary report, concerning the creation of a European Railway Agency. Representatives of employees’ organisations would sit on its Administrative Board. Lastly, it was because of these three principles that we voted for Mrs Ainardi’s proposals. The latter provide for social and environmental issues to be taken into account and for high safety requirements. Following the decisions of the Council after the first reading, and the recent votes in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, we will again oppose liberalisation of freight transport by 2006 and of passenger transport by 2007. We will establish our final position on the Sterckx report on the basis of the results of the vote on the amendments in plenary. We will continue to support the reports and positions of Mr Savary and Mrs Ainardi. They are in line with the principles we hold dear. –  I count myself amongst those who regret that the resolution does not refer to the causes and reasons of the present crisis in Iraq for so-called politicking reasons. Nevertheless, I cannot withhold my broad support for the proposals contained in the resolution tabled with a view to resolving this crisis. While I support the proposals, this does not mean that I support the Anglo-American war. Quite the opposite is the case! The proposals advocate giving the United Nations a significant and central role in ensuring that a democratic Iraq regains its independence at the earliest opportunity. This is why I support the majority of these proposals! . –  Like other Members, I welcomed the drafting, the vote and the proclamation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in 2000 and I too joined the House in celebrating its achievements. We can still campaign, however, for further progress – which is something I can always hope for and even seek – in areas affecting society and the life of citizens. If you read all the articles of our Charter very closely, you can see the obvious benefit of having a document that is common to the current 15 members and to the future 25. With this Charter, the Europe of the citizen is finally taking shape! That is why, as rapporteur, and supporter of a European Constitution, I want our Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into this Constitution. Of course, this does not prevent me from strongly criticising the Europe we have today, which is too liberal with regard to economic issues, too submissive to financial bodies and the stock markets, non-existent in the political arena when working with the United States to manage major global problems. I believe, however, that with a European Constitution which incorporates the Charter of Fundamental Rights, we will have the ability to make progress in a direction that will enable us to profoundly change the Europe we have today and of which I am critical. .The recent news has reminded us of the importance of this issue and of the extent and seriousness of the violence, hidden or otherwise, suffered by children and women in all social spheres. In the case of men’s violence against women the cause of the violence is machismo-inspired and in the case of violence perpetrated by parents against their children the cause is an unthinking, even pathological, outburst. Hence the need for a generously financed programme accompanied by a stepping up of preventive and punitive legislation in this area. –  Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Liese, ladies and gentlemen, we are familiar with the development of treatments based on the use of tissues and cells of human origin. There are hundreds of thousands of such treatments every year. It was therefore a matter of urgency that the Commission should propose a draft directive seeking to draw up new quality and safety standards in order to increase public confidence in the use of such tissues and cells in and on the human body. I therefore approve the Commission’s action without reservation, and I support it. Unfortunately, as someone has already said this evening, there are too many amendments, leading in every direction, and this threatens to change the nature of the initial draft, thereby depriving us of regulations which are, however, urgently needed. This is why this evening, in this debate, on behalf of the GUE/NGL, I should like to remind the House of the three fundamental principles which lead me to oppose many of these amendments. The first principle is that we must not take advantage of a draft directive, the need for which nobody would deny, in order to broaden its scope so as to include sectors which will have to have special regulations, or which have such regulations already. Above all, we must not use this draft as a means of opening debates about stem cells, embryonic cells and supernumerary cells, about research into these subjects, or even about voluntary termination of pregnancy. Many amendments contain these objectives, camouflaged, to a greater or lesser extent, by good intentions, and for that reason we shall not be voting in favour of them. The second principle is that research and science should be enclosed by ethical rules in order to avoid irresponsible actions which are dangerous to the human species, but they must not be prevented by religious prohibitions, from whatever quarter. This is a basic rule of secularity. It is a necessary condition in order to guarantee progress. Here again, there is no shortage of amendments which should be rejected in the name of this principle. The third principle is that the human body should not be available for sale, for purchase or for theft. On this point at least we must all be agreed, and we must also be agreed on the fact that this principle implies, firstly, a real and explicit willingness on the part of the donor and, secondly, explicit protection of the anonymity of the donor and of the recipient. Any exception would be a source of all kinds of abuses and excesses. However, that does not prevent traceability, which guarantees that the quality of transplants can be controlled. Thirdly, the fact that donations should be given without remuneration should not even be a matter for discussion: human bodies are not commercial goods. In conclusion, I repeat that the development of these therapeutic treatments is such that a European directive is essential. However, this development also makes it essential, at the same time, for the European Parliament, in other words for us, to show rigour and respect for the great principles which very many of us have in common and which we cannot allow to be called into question, even insidiously. . –  I am gratified to see the knot being tied today on the legislative package relating to the sixth framework research programme (FRP). We have honoured our commitments by adopting the report on the sixth FRP as such in May 2002, the reports on the specific programmes in June and, lastly, the rules of participation in July, to pave the way for the creation of a legal and financial framework for the achievement of the research aims formulated for the period until 2006. At this point let me pay tribute to the work that Mrs Quisthoudt-Rowohl has done. She has made every possible effort so that the three institutions might find a compromise that could be adopted at first reading. The Commission is pursuing various objectives, which we have supported from the outset: to establish simpler rules, to create a faster and less cumbersome administrative system and to protect the financial interests of the Community. Several snags, however, quickly came to light. I can only address the question of joint and several liability. The Commission’s proposal provided for participants’ joint and several liability for grants awarded from the Community budget, including the funds administered by other participants. The limitations of this approach soon became evident, which is why, after several informal trialogues, the decision was taken to assign liability to participants for their respective portions of the Community funds. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission communication and Mr Bowis's report are based on the vicious, infernal and fatal circle which robs developing countries of any real right to health for the majority of their population, which only aggravates their underdevelopment still further. The same applied, incidentally, to my own report on the financing of clinical interventions to combat AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, which was adopted several months ago. I therefore give my unreserved support to the rapporteur and to the proposals he and the Committee on Development and Cooperation have put forward. We need to increase the level of financial contributions, particularly those earmarked for water. As several other Members have said, three million people die in the world every year for lack of drinking water. Major vaccination campaigns are needed. Preventive health measures need to be built up. Medicines need to be made accessible and methods of treatment need to be adapted for developing countries, not to mention palliative care, the provision of analgesics and the fight against trafficking in counterfeit medicines. In March 2003, in the wake of the Sixth Framework Programme on Research and Technological Development, I persuaded the European Parliament to adopt a EUR 600 million research programme to combat AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis under Article 169, which also made a concrete contribution towards achieving the same objectives. I am seizing the opportunity I have been given this evening to inform fellow Members about the implementation of this programme since its final adoption on 16 June. Commissioner Busquin has returned from Africa, where he was able to confirm interest on the part of researchers in the countries concerned following the establishment of appropriate management structures. Measurable progress has already been accomplished over several years, very often with the encouragement of this House, acting in close partnership with the European Commission. We also, and above all, need to be aware of the dramatic situation in the developing countries, which is an indication of everything that remains to be done and of the enormous effort that is required in terms of imagination, partnership and budget resources. By way of conclusion, I would like to reiterate my support for the committee’s proposals, my total support for our rapporteur, my personal commitment in these areas, not to mention the commitment of my group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, and I invite the Commission, and above all the Council, to step up Europe's commitment if we are to avoid a situation in which far from improving, the developing countries' position deteriorates in future. –  Cancer is a terrible disease that affects millions of Europeans and other human beings on the planet. I have always said, and I repeat, that, in terms of research funds and of methods of treating patients and supporting the terminally ill, society makes insufficient efforts to combat this disease, given its scale and seriousness. Screening is part of what is required, and I therefore support this, but it does not solve all the problems. Once the disease has been diagnosed, it has to be treated so as to cure the patient. In proposing 250 inter-university European Masters with a quality label (‘Erasmus Mundus Masters Courses’) and with the support of the European Union; in awarding scholarships for 4 200 postgraduate students from third countries; or, again, in offering scholarships for 1 000 scholars invited from third countries to Europe, the stakes have been set high, and the budget should be commensurate with these. If, clearly, the budget made available for this new instrument must not in any way put a strain on the budgets for the existing programmes, it remains no less the case that the budgets initially provided for by the Commission (EUR 200 million) and by the Council (EUR 180 million) are far too niggardly to give full scope to this new instrument of exchange and cooperation within the field of higher education. Now, the stakes are high. It is, in fact, a question not only of forging closer links between the European universities but also of boosting the competitiveness of higher education provision by making it more attractive to students and teachers in the rest of the world. The linguistic stakes cannot be ignored. It is a question of emphasising both the importance of the EU’s linguistic diversity and the need for third-country students to know at least two EU languages. This Daphne programme is one which we, all of us, wished for, we, the Members of the European Parliament, but also all the organisations, both non-governmental and other types of organisations, and associations working in the delicate area of violence against children, young people and women. The Council has curtailed the duration of the programme – 4 years instead of the 5 originally envisaged, but the budgetary allocation remains the same. The rapporteur did an excellent job of negotiating with the Council, with the outcome that our three key amendments were accepted both by the Commission and by the Council. These amendments primarily concern the necessary reference to the concept of the physical and emotional integrity of the individual and thus to the concept of dignity, such that inflicting physical, sexual or psychological violence is tantamount to depriving that person of their human rights. Secondly, the definition of “public health”, as defined by the WHO, i.e. not only the absence of disease or infirmity, but a state of physical, mental and social well being is taken up in the report. Thirdly, the encouragement to be given to organisations and associations in general working in this sector is stressed. Fourthly, last but not least, reference is made to public and media information and awareness on these painful social matters. There are, then, great expectations, and it is imperative for our House to vote on this matter and, according to the rules of codecision, we must mobilise the 314 votes necessary for the Daphne programme to be adopted. This is why I can do no more than urge you to vote in favour of this report, unanimously, to avoid further procedural delays (conciliation), and to enable it to come into force in January 2000. . The accession of these 10 new Member States has to be supported by all those wishing to stabilise the continent as a whole, consolidate democracy and peace, strengthen the economy and sustainable development and be part of a cultural and human dimension based on shared values of freedom, respect for fundamental rights, good governance and the rule of law. These new Member States have a vital role to play in building an even stronger and more efficient European Union. This represents an unprecedented challenge on the political, economic and social levels. It also should be borne in mind that if this challenge is taken up, tremendous potential for strengthening and developing the European Union will be unleashed. We will indeed be able to aspire to a European Union speaking with one and the same voice on the world political stage and playing a leading role. I have no wish to hold up this historical process in any way. Nonetheless, if Amendment No 1, the second part of Amendment No 13 and Amendment No 19 are not adopted, I shall abstain. I will, however, vote in favour of the accession of each of the 10 candidate countries when it comes to the vote on the various recommendations. I trust this will help lay the best possible foundations for our shared future. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to our rapporteur and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, for the diligence they have shown and for their remarkable work on such a serious and crucial issue. Not only has our Parliament accelerated the legislative procedure, which was to be expected, but it has also succeeded in staying at the forefront in matters of safety by putting across principles it has recognised for a long time. The fact is that, on three accounts, Mark Watts has managed to reinforce the measure envisaged by the Commission: - Not only must ships which have been detained more than twice in the course of the preceding 24 months in a port of a Member State be barred from sailing but, in the opinion our Parliament, this should apply irrespective of the age of the vessel. - Ships that have flown the flag of a blacklisted state for 3 consecutive years shall be barred from sailing in the waters under the jurisdiction of the Member States. This is aimed at dissuading states issuing these types of flags of convenience and shipowners from having recourse to this illegal practice. - A black box shall be installed on board ship. A ship that does not have a black box will in future be refused access to Community ports. Public opinion is waiting for us to act and is impatient for our vote. We have not accelerated the procedure only to hold it up at the finish line through conciliation with the Council, which would be spread out over several months. The risks of accidents and pollution are too great, to say nothing of shipboard working conditions and the wages of the seamen. Let us demonstrate our drive and energy and let us vote in favour of this progressive report. This will be to our credit and preserve our environment, and hence give us a better quality of life. This proposed directive is most welcome within the European Union. It forms part of the overall Community strategy for the reduction of marine pollution and for waste management and requires all Union ports, including yachting marinas, to provide appropriate waste-disposal facilities suited to the requirements of vessels. International regulations were already in existence, since the Marpol Convention imposes binding international regulations upon all vessels, according to which all discharges at sea are prohibited. The real problem, however, is the application and observance of these standards! The fine ‘polluter pays’ principle, so dear to many Member States, including my own, is far from being complied with! The  disaster is testimony to this unfortunate state of affairs, as are the thirty-nine instances of degassing which went unpunished in the space of a single week! This is why the European Parliament and its Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, confirming the outcome of the first reading in the previous legislative period, have proposed that every vessel entering a Member State port should bear 90% of the costs of waste disposal and management, regardless of the actual use made of the facilities. We feel that this is the only realistic and fair way to prevent the illegal dumping of waste at sea. If the port facilities were in fact financed (at a high level) only by the vessels actually using them, then there would be grounds for fearing that many vessels would avoid these charges, since dumping waste at sea would prove less costly. Moreover, we wish to set the level for mandatory inspection at 25% of all vessels. On the eve of the French Presidency of the European Union, this is the position which the French Socialists are preparing to champion. All I can do is urge this House to do as much. It is a political fight, in which our role, is it not, is to wage this campaign, even if it does lead use to make ambitious political decisions which occasionally go further than those of our own governments, and which are always far-reaching and positive? –  This report is a typical example of the type of debate which precludes political consensus. This is an eminently political subject where one can see the conservative right flirting with lack of job security and the forces of the left seeking to establish social convergence, stressing the link between employment, job quality and social protection. For the first time the advances of Amsterdam give us the opportunity to be involved in the discussion of the guidelines in the form of Mr Menrad’s report. This is why we must insist on objectives which are expressed in definite figures, with a definite timetable. Hence the importance of the amendments resubmitted by my group, with the following requirements: 1)the combined forces of Member States and the European Union should converge towards a 65% rate of employment within the next five years; 2)preventative measures should have the objective of reducing unemployment by 50% within each Member State over the long term within the next five years; 3)positive measures should be undertaken to encourage the young unemployed to find a job and to facilitate their integration into employment; 4)the deadline of 2002 should be set for equipping schools with computers and enabling students to access the Internet. Employment cannot be assessed simply in terms of the creation of jobs. It is important, above all, to consider the quality of employment, of education and the quality of training for all. It is on this project as a whole that we shall be judged, on quantitative but also on qualitative results, on a new way of living, of life at work and life outside work, and balancing the two.  Let us accept the challenge, and let us get all the weapons on our side, the side of life and integration. –  I can only add my final support to this report which emphasises how pivotal and crucial cohesion policy is for all those who want the European model, based on integration and solidarity between the richest and poorest regions of the European Union, to be more than just a pious hope in the enlarged Union. As this policy is crucial, it therefore needs to be reorganised, to be adapted to and meet the specific needs and socio-economic reality that will result from enlargement. We now need to transform the economy in a way that is ecologically and socially sound and direct it towards sustainable development. Sustainable development must become the goal of the steps we take with regard to cohesion, as Jacques Delors emphasised as long ago as 1993. In order to identify regions in need of aid, therefore, the per capita GDP criterion should no longer be the only indicator used. We need to supplement this with other regional statistical indicators. That is why I shall support Amendment No 10. I shall therefore give this report my full backing precisely because it strongly reiterates the fact that tomorrow’s cohesion policy must be based on the principles of solidarity, partnership and additionality. .– First of all, I would like to thank both our rapporteur for the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, Mr Georg Jarzembowski, and the Committee as a whole for the high quality of their work. I have several reasons for voting against this report. To me, voting against this report means first of all rejecting the liberalisation of intra-port services, that is to say going against the obligatory privatisation of handling and mooring services. As piloting is the only intra-port service to have been recognised as an obligatory public service and as an activity requiring great care with regard to safety, it is the only intra-port service that will continue to be controlled by the Member States, and that will, therefore, be excluded from the scope of the directive. I simply cannot comprehend, however, that mooring service providers, who provide an internationally recognised service of general interest by providing indispensable assistance both with regard to prevention in the field of environmental protection and in implementing the best possible level of safety, will from now on be subject to competition. To me, voting against this report also means rejecting liberalisation between ports, that is to say, rejecting competition between ports, competition which can only have disastrous and harmful effects, with regard to both the quality of services rendered and the working conditions themselves. Voting against this report therefore means arguing for increased cooperation between ports, recognising that ports are a full and complete factor in regional planning and that as such, they must not be subjected to competition that could lead to their eradication. These, in short, are the two main reasons that have led me not to deliver a final vote in favour of this report. – Mobility inside the European Union is one of the essential conditions for enabling European citizens to feel that they are full members of this Europe we are gradually building. This is more than a symbol; it is a reason, a driving force, for belonging to the European culture and model we are proclaiming. That is why I shall vote for this report. It lays down conditions to enable people travelling inside the Union to do so free from restrictions on their rights, their social security, or other benefits. This report is all the more important because it comes at a critical time for the European Union, a time of enlargement. Mobility for all, including nationals of third countries legally resident in Union territory and students and teachers acting independently – outside the Socrates and Leonardo programmes – is one of the fundamental values of the Union which we must uphold so that the candidate countries know exactly what kind of Union they will be joining. .– The commitment made in Lisbon to a European future characterised by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion seems to be highly threatened by this report, if it is amended today in the ways proposed by Mr Mann. Those amendments, which have been reinserted for the plenary sitting, entirely undermine the work done by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to restore balance to the rapporteur’s text in favour of an employment policy that it not only concerned with increased flexibility and reducing tax pressure, but also and above all with establishing quality employment for all as quickly as possible: training and education must therefore be the pivots of our policy, and second-rate jobs and other unqualified jobs must disappear. The report thus amended ignores the principles of solidarity and social cohesion, which are essential and objective principles to achieve for anyone seriously seeking to establish a new employment strategy, a generous strategy that places the person at the centre of all its concerns. I can therefore only oppose the report amended in this way, as it adopts neo-liberal principles in advocating an employment policy that ignores the person. –  First and foremost, I should like to thank both the rapporteur in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, Mr Markus Ferber, and all of the Members of that committee for their proposal. The compromise amendment tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Ferber, is unsatisfactory, indeed even unacceptable. This amendment is unsatisfactory because it calls for a unilateral evaluation, which would be made by the Commission alone, and not, as I would have wished, a more controversial one carried out by all of the stakeholders. It is unacceptable because it rejects Parliament's initial proposal to limit the next stage of liberalisation to 150g and four times the basic tariff, and yet does not give any guarantee that a high level of social cohesion will be maintained. It is also unacceptable because this amendment refuses to tackle the problem of the conditions under which access will be available to the networks of the new operators. Finally, it is unacceptable because this amendment refuses to raise the issue of how the universal service will be funded; in fact if there is a legitimate request it is surely that of funding: we actually have a right to know how the universal service will be funded, which is to say how the universal service will be able to be guaranteed as such. Nevertheless, I will vote in favour of the common position for lack of anything better, because if we were to try to amend the text again we would run the risk of seeing the common position fail; we would therefore be running the risk of not having any directive on postal services and consequently of this sector being fully liberalised within two years. It was therefore more out of a concern to play safe than a real enthusiasm for the text – which in my opinion is far too cynically liberal – that I voted in favour of the common position. First of all I want to thank both Mr Robert Evans, our rapporteur in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and the committee as a whole for the quality of the work they have done and for the courageous social choices they have asked us to make today. In my view, voting for this report means, above all, endorsing the ambitious approach set out by the Tampere European Council, namely not just the statement that 'in the longer term, Community rules should lead to a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those granted asylum valid throughout the Union', but also the commitment of that same Tampere European Council to the 'full and inclusive' interpretation of the Geneva Convention. In other words, to vote for this report means to support the idea that a common asylum policy must adhere to high standards for the protection of the refugees, include a common definition of the concept of 'refugee' and give a full and inclusive interpretation of the Geneva Convention, taking account of persecution both by state and by non-state agents, as well as the asylum seekers' fear of future persecution. I therefore believe it is important to draw your attention to the fact that the common, 'full and inclusive' interpretation of the Geneva Convention must include the possibility of granting asylum in cases where the persecution is not carried out by the state. The Member States take many different views on this particular point. In other words, the further development of the common policy calls for further harmonisation of procedures throughout the Union. We must, however, note that while it is important to encourage this kind of single procedure, this must not restrict the possibilities for the individual to obtain refugee status under the terms of the Geneva Convention. In my view, voting for this report also means emphasising the fact that the use of concepts such as 'safe third countries', 'safe country of origin', 'accelerated procedures' and 'procedures for manifestly unfounded applications' must only be used where justified and include legally binding guarantees. . – I wish to thank our rapporteur, MrsElena Valenciano Martinez-Orozco, and the committee as a whole for the high-quality work that they have presented to us and for the courageous social choices that they are leading us to make today. Female genital mutilation endangers health and leads to serious and irreversible consequences such as serious and potentially fatal complications in sexual relations, pregnancy and childbirth, and so it strikes me as essential that we vote for this report today and thereby condemn all female genital mutilation, to whatever degree it is carried out. This report is all the more deserving of a favourable vote because it calls on the Council, the Commission and the Member States, to define all female genital mutilation as a crime and to impose criminal sanctions on any of their residents who have engaged in this practice, even if the offence was committed outside the EU's borders. This principle of the offence's extraterritoriality must be firmly upheld. If any further proof of the need to vote for such a report were required, I shall give the following reason: the fact of being a victim of such practices, as well as that of being born a woman in a place where one runs the risk of undergoing genital mutilation must constitute valid and conclusive grounds for the right of asylum or of humanitarian protection to be granted. The Commission, the Council and the Member States must, within the framework of the immigration and asylum policy agreed in Title IV of the Amsterdam Treaty, adopt measures on granting residence permits to the victims of this practice and recognise the right to asylum of women and girls who risk being genitally mutilated. For the sake of equality, liberty and dignity, to which every human being has a right, it appears to me – and should appear to us all – imperative that we protect women and vote unhesitatingly for this proposal. This is a political responsibility that we must shoulder. There is 18% of the population of Europe, or 60 million people, living on less than 60% of the average national income (the low-income threshold used to measure relative poverty). Simply mentioning these figures ought to drive us to act, which is what the Heads of State and Government did in Lisbon by entering poverty and exclusion on the European agenda for the first time. Since Europe cannot be economically strong without social justice, we can only welcome this progress. That is why I have no option but to vote in favour of this report by our colleague, which not only endorses the Commission’s proposal but also enhances its content. The report calls for qualitative and quantitative indicators of social exclusion to be established. It is fundamental within the 15 States of the European Union for us all to able to speak of the same thing on the basis of identical data. Moreover, the report calls on the Member States to be more proactive and set precise objectives when they draw up their national action plans. Finally, the report goes back to the open method of coordination, calling for dialogue between the players involved (social partners, NGOs, local and regional authorities) and networking. In conclusion, our Committee on Social Affairs, is proposing a budget of EUR 100 million instead of the EUR 70 proposed by the Commission. All in all, this is a step forward that we must consolidate and encourage, since economic progress by itself can certainly not guarantee the citizens a better quality of life. .  I wish to congratulate Mr Brok on the remarkable piece of work that he has produced. His report clearly sets out the issues and the objectives of enlargement in the field of regional policy and he does so in both political as well as financial terms. I would say that this is both a forward-looking and realistic report. Enlargement with the addition of thirteen countries changes not only the geopolitical framework of the European Union, but also its structure, because the total population will increase (by 28%), but so will the number of ‘disadvantaged’ regions. We must be aware of this! The rapporteur tells us that out of the 50 regions in the candidate countries, 48 have a per capita GDP that is less than 75% of the average in the Europe of Fifteen for the period 1995-1997. The only regions to have higher levels are Prague (119%) and Bratislava (96%). This shows us once again that the disparities between rich and poor regions are also enormous in these countries, and that these disparities will not cease to exist after these countries have joined the Union. We must therefore try to ensure that the administrative structures of these countries are able effectively to absorb Structural Fund appropriations. In order for this to happen, candidate countries need aid, particularly through the PHARE programme. They must have a sound and responsible administration, staffed by men and women who are trained in Community procedures and in budgetary rules. Furthermore, the report reminds us of the need to devise new criteria for regional policy for the period 2006-2013, because once enlargement has taken place, the approach to a regional policy for 25 countries will not be the same as it was for 15! We need to devise a new strategy based on the European Spatial Development Perspective (ESDP). A global vision of Community territory would therefore seem essential for better regional development. This report forces us to face our responsibilities and that is why I voted in favour of it. –  This Council initiative is essential because it is not possible to allow childhood and naivety to be exploited for degrading commercial purposes, in denial of all humane values. It is of the utmost importance to prevent such violations of the rights of individuals and the rights of children and not to confine ourselves to merely reacting. I share the opinion of our rapporteur and the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, that the Council proposal should be made more binding. The definition of offences of child pornography must also be stricter, and I find the definition given by the parliamentary committee perfectly appropriate, ‘the production, sale and distribution or other forms of trafficking in child pornography material and the possession of such material is punishable’ with the proviso that ‘possession shall be punishable only where it is the result of an intentional or deliberate act’. We need all citizens to be involved and to be vigilant, not just police forces through Europol, and public authorities, but also Internet users and the economic network producers, in order to be able to identify the people who use these electronic messages. There is too much at stake for us to fail to call for the mobilisation of the general population against this danger, and that is why I am compelled to vote in favour of this report. I can only recommend that this text be adopted, which is the product of a long and difficult conciliation process between the Council, the Commission and Parliament. This favourable vote is of capital importance as it concerns the health and safety of some 7 million workers in Europe. Workers in the transport sector and offshore workers, sea fishermen and doctors in training will at last be entitled to benefit from European working hours regulations. As a French member of the Parliament’s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, at second reading, I supported Parliament’s position which, in particular, provided for a four-year transition period for doctors in training, with a maximum working week of 54 hours, over a four month reference period. The conciliation process produced an agreement whereby doctors in training will be covered by the directive, as far as its scope of application – a maximum 48-hour working week over a four-month reference period – is concerned, after a period of nine years. The nine-year period is to be subdivided as follows: a four-year transposition period and a five-year transition period. In the first three years of the transition period, the number of weekly working hours shall not exceed 58, or 56 during the last two years. For some States, however, this sort of nine-year period will not be sufficient to carry out the necessary adjustments. These States may therefore be permitted an additional period of two years. The Commission will make a statement on the notification of the relevant Member State, after consulting employers and workers at European level, as well as representatives of the Member States. The notification, the opinion of the Commission and, if this opinion is not acted upon, the Member State’s justification, shall be published in the OJ and sent to the European Parliament. If there are specific problems, then the two-year period may be extended for a further year, but the Member State must incorporate the procedure in full. The maximum number of weekly working hours may not then exceed 52. . This seventh amendment to Directive 76/768/EEC on cosmetic products is essential because, apart from the fact that it seeks to approximate the various laws of the Member States relating to cosmetic products, its main objective is to put in place a lasting and definitive ban on the performance of animal experiments for finished cosmetic products in the European Union. This objective might have remained a pious hope if Parliament had not demanded the simultaneous imposition of an immediate ban on animal experiments for finished products and for ingredients in cases where alternative methods of experimentation have been validated by the European Centre for the Validation of Alternative Methods and of a ban on the marketing of cosmetic ingredients tested on animals. In fact, I think the concomitance of these two bans is the only really effective way of stimulating the development of alternative methods of experimentation. Finally, with reference to the precautionary principle, I think that carcinogenic, mutagenic and reproductively toxic substances, classed in categories 1, 2 and 3 depending on their risk potential, should be banned from use in cosmetics. –  My main reason for supporting this report has to do with the necessarily provisional character of the European automobile industry’s voluntary commitment to improving pedestrians’ and cyclists’ chances of survival in the event of collisions, weighed against the stricter and more solid Community legislation that is on the way and that will replace the voluntary commitment. Although this voluntary agreement being considered between the various automobile manufacturers could be implemented fairly quickly and give rise to practical measures, I nonetheless think that, in the long term, a solid legal basis is the only satisfactory way of protecting pedestrians and cyclists. A framework directive with a precise and realistic timetable seems to me to be the appropriate way of bringing about a genuinely dependable policy on roads. The voluntary agreement does not, for its part, seem capable of offering the guarantees required of a trustworthy road safety policy. In addition to the fact that such an agreement is of no effect if one of the partners decides to withdraw from it and that it suffers from a lack of openness and transparency, it also has the major shortcoming of not being really binding. These are all reasons in favour of a framework directive aimed at introducing a genuine policy to protect pedestrians and cyclists, and all reasons which lead me to support the report in question, inviting the Commission to propose this directive. –  I can only support and uphold the general objective of the five-year Erasmus World programme (2004-2008), which seeks to help develop high-quality education in Europe through closer cooperation with third countries. We must prepare the citizens of Europe and partner third countries to live and work in a society where knowledge is an imperative, strengthen the attraction of Europe as a centre of excellence for higher education and, lastly, increase mutual understanding between peoples and cultures through exchanges and structural cooperation. Establishing this Europe of education that is both attractive and open to the world nevertheless calls for budgets equal to the task: this programme, which is the bearer of great prospects must not be the bearer of false hopes because it is allocated insufficient funding. In other words, the budgetary outlay must be worthy of the programme which we want to see implemented, a programme which is truly wide-ranging, a programme which can benefit a sizeable number of students and thereby attain the ambitious objectives in order to bring about significant intercultural dialogue. By voting in favour of this report, I want to emphasise the need for a directive – based on Article 13 of the EC Treaty – on the equality of women and men in areas other than employment. Vigilance does, however, remain appropriate, and fighting for genuine equality, actual equality between women and men in all areas of economic, social and political life, is a constant battle that must be continued. I will take the example of the scope of the directive. Following significant misgivings and strong resistance on the part of several interest groups, in particular the media sector, the scope of this directive has been ‘watered down’ to only now cover access to, and supply of, goods and services, thus leaving aside other areas such as media and advertising content, education and the decision-making process. At any rate, this proposal must be welcomed as a logical and necessary step towards implementing a policy that will enable sexual discrimination to be fully combated and equality in areas other than employment to be guaranteed. It would be difficult not to give one’s full and entire support to this new version of Directive 76/207/EC on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in all areas of employment including vocational training. Among the many reasons for that support, there are three which are particularly crucial and essential as far as I am concerned. The first of these is that this text, for the first time at Community level, contains a definition of ‘sexual harassment’, which is defined as a situation “where any form of unwanted verbal, non-verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature occurs with the purpose or effect of violating the dignity of a person, in particular when creating an intimidating, hostile, humiliating or offensive environment”. This directive also defines ‘direct discrimination’, ‘indirect discrimination’ and ‘harassment’. The second reason is the fact that this new directive prohibits discrimination against women on the grounds of pregnancy or maternity leave, and lays down the entitlement to return to the same job or an equivalent position at the end of maternity leave, or paternity or adoption leave, when those rights are recognised by Member States. First of all I should like to thank both our rapporteur from the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, Mrs Brigitte Langenhagen, and also the whole of that Committee, for the high-quality work that they have submitted to us and also for the fact that they have strongly emphasised both the advantages and the difficulties that could result from the implementation of the GALILEO satellite navigation programme. Let us remember, briefly, that the GALILEO satellite navigation programme is an ambitious project which provides for the deployment of an arrangement of satellites in orbit at a distance of about 20 000 km from the Earth, linked to a network of ground control stations. This definition shows us how important it is to vote in favour of this report, as I shall be doing. The implementation of the GALILEO project will enable us to have world coverage which can be used not only for controlling air, sea and road traffic but also for supporting search and rescue operations. However, although it is necessary, for the above-mentioned reasons, to vote in favour of the report, thereby allowing the EU to develop a system which the European Council in Stockholm considered was important enough to be launched ‘without delay’, we should do so while bearing in mind those areas – highlighted in the report – which may prove to be problematical in future. It is, in fact, extremely important that we should remain vigilant regarding the possibility of such a system being used for military purposes. It is possible that the system might be misused, and it is up to us to be aware of this and to ensure that such a thing cannot happen. In addition, it should be noted that the immediate funding of such a project will not be without its problems. Member States, or at least some of them, are reluctant to lend their financial support to the implementation of GALILEO, and private investors do not seem to be particularly enthusiastic about the idea of participating in such a project either. In other words, before coming to a final decision, the budgetary authorities of the European Union need to have an accurate understanding of the financing involved, which means that the Commission will have to prepare proposals for the management structures for the GALILEO project. .–  The sinking of the , which caused a large-scale environmental and economic disaster, is a cruel reminder of how crucial it is to attach the utmost priority to maritime safety at both European and world level. We must rapidly adopt an entire range of measures designed to prevent future accidents similar to that of the . Heading the list of these measures are implementing the Community and international legislation in force and monitoring compliance with these regulations. The measures set out in the two Erika packages must be implemented without delay. These agreements, which have already been concluded, can be built on and they will be built on more effectively if those working in the fishing and fish farming industries are involved in the negotiations. This disaster is not, therefore, as some would have us believe, ‘just’ a Spanish matter. I believe it is crucial to set up a temporary committee. This is indeed crucial if we are to prevent similar disasters from occurring again, to find out the causes and the consequences of what has happened as objectively as possible: what is at stake is Parliament’s credibility and the dynamic role that Europe must play in the field of maritime safety. . –  Congratulations are due Mrs Hedkvist Petersen on her conscientious, thorough and innovative work. Road safety is indeed a serious area in which we cannot afford to indulge in hypocrisy and hyperbole, which the rapporteur avoids absolutely. There are some Members in this House who will take advantage of this issue to demand that the principle of subsidiarity be strengthened, leaving Member States to manage road safety decisions as they wish. I, however, share the rapporteur’s opinion as, while acknowledging the key position of the states in this area, she nonetheless recognises that this is an area where responsibility is shared between Community, national, regional and local authorities. The great disparities between Member States, particularly with regard to speed limits and ‘authorised’ blood alcohol levels, do nothing to reduce the number of accidents on the roads of Europe. Within the European Union, road accidents are the number one cause of death in children and adults under 45. I, therefore, like the rapporteur, consider it essential that the Commission does not confine itself to a recommendation on alcohol levels, but sets a clear limit at 0.5 mg/l. Similarly, additional support must be given to the European assessment programme for new car models (Euro-NCAP). This could be achieved, specifically, in the form of a proposal for a directive. In the same way, we must consider intensifying the existing link between the environment and road safety (leading us, for example, to reassess road signs and marking to make them safer). We must all accept our responsibilities, and that is what the rapporteur sets out to do in this initiative which does her great credit. I shall therefore vote in favour of this report. –  The sinking of the  and the are cruel reminders of how urgent and necessary it is to make maritime safety a major priority, and of how important it is to guarantee a high level of training for seafarers on European vessels, equally so when the sailors are nationals of third countries. The European fleet has a genuine interest in the possibility of having seafarers from third countries come to the EU. Of the approximately 140 000 sailors serving on vessels flying a European Union flag, around one third (that is 47 000) come from third countries. Furthermore, in many Member States, shipowners have difficulty in finding crew trained at national level. This proposal, which aims – with the help of the European Maritime Safety Agency- to replace the current procedure for recognition of certificates of competency according to Member State with a recognition procedure at Commission level is therefore an important step in the right direction for guaranteeing the highest level of safety possible. During the vote, I will pay particular attention to the amendments insisting on the competency of seafarers, access to training, the evaluation report and the fight against fraudulent practices. .  While it does not seem odd to me to take measures to remove surplus vessels from the fleet in the light of available fisheries resources, I am not, on the other hand, prepared to accept such a measure that currently is not financed. The introduction of this emergency measure to scrap fishing vessels does not take into account the FIFG appropriations, and I do not agree that Member States should be forced to re-schedule appropriations which have already been scheduled and allocated for other purposes. The objectives of the national programmes involving FIFG appropriations, such as the programme on the renewal and essential modernisation of the fleet, may thus run counter to the scrapping programme. A programme to remove surplus ships from the fleet at Community level might have proved, for example, to be an effective and fair means of identifying any existing over-capacity in certain Member States, while at the same time providing a specific solution to the Commission’s concern about the need to reduce the over-capacity of Community fishing. In short, it would be highly desirable for the Commission to consider a solution which would give preference to TAC rather than irreversible scrapping measures which would have a much more radical socio-economic effect on all those involved. Since the report is in line with these comments, I shall vote in favour of it. . –  Although it is clear to me that there is a need to reform the common fisheries policy as quickly as possible, and although I recognise that the stocks covered by this proposal for a regulation have been weakened, I nevertheless consider that this reform, as envisaged here, is unbalanced and could make us forget that the protection of fish resources, while necessary, should in no way be at the expense of fishermen. It seems to me that this report does not devote enough attention to the men and women who, aware that the very survival of their livelihood depends above all on the management and preservation of fish stocks, have already undertaken to make enormous efforts in that direction. This report seems to me to be a kind of Trojan horse in terms of the future common fisheries policy as presented now by the Commissioner responsible, Mr Fischler. I shall therefore be voting against this motion for a resolution, which I regard as a motion that ignores human beings and proposes measures with traumatic and brutal consequences for the fisheries chain. –  I am very pleased with this first reading and with the work that has been achieved by our Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, with the commitment of our rapporteur and, above all, with the skill and constancy demonstrated on so many occasions by Brian Simpson, our shadow rapporteur in the Group of the Party of European Socialists. The liberalisation of postal services is one of the fundamental dossiers connected with the concept of services of general interest and, more generally, with preserving the European Union’s social and territorial cohesion. In addition to the technical but necessary vision of what we wish to preserve in the field of universal service and of what we would like to open up to competition, there is the implementation of the “European social model”. How far must liberalisation be taken? Why should we try to speed up the process, which is what the executive Commission and Commissioner Bolkestein wanted? Why should we try to dismantle services which are useful and appreciated by our citizens, by denying them adequate financial resources and by making them dependent on an obsolete and punishing system of subsidies? We cannot, of course, undermine the principle of the adaptability of public services, which is what the Commission suggested, since this lies at the very heart of the history of most of our countries and which we consider to be very important. I do not think that this is at all reasonable and, fortunately, we were to put things right during the vote in the parliamentary committee. This is why I voted for this report as adopted in committee. . I am bound, in the end, to lend my support to this report, which emphasises the importance of the Commission proposal to create a Single European Sky by 31 December 2004 at the latest. Creating a Single European Sky seems to me to be imperative if we want not only to optimise the use of our existing airspace, to establish more stringent aviation safety conditions, and the safe and effective management of projected increases in traffic, but also to create conditions allowing European airlines to compete with others. This proposal, which must allow a certain amount of harmonisation and interoperability of air navigation systems, is not, however, without its problems. The definition of cooperation between Eurocontrol and the Community is one such problem, as is the definition of cooperation between civil and military authorities. I am supporting this report to emphasise that the creation of a Single European Sky must not be delayed in any way. A reduction in costs relating to air traffic control, fewer delays and increased system capacity are all at stake, as well as, in particular, a considerable improvement of the safety conditions. . –  Should we do away with fishing altogether? If we follow the Commission’s unilateral approach to sustainable development, that will be the best solution to enable fish populations to recover. Of course, what the Commission says is undeniably true: there are simply not enough fisheries resources. Yet for all that the Commission’s solution is not mine, because it forgets the men and women, in other words it takes absolutely no account of the people who work in the industry and who earn their livelihood from fishing. An approach based on sustainable development should not only seek to preserve fish stocks, but should also seek to ensure, if possible, the survival of the fishing industry. The Commission’s solution is too brutal in envisaging a ‘rapid reconstitution’ of fish stocks rather than a reconstitution which, in the shortest possible time, would reduce to a minimum the socio-economic impact on fishermen and their families. The abolition of State aid for building new boats and for modernising the existing fleet is unacceptable. The amendments make positive changes to the Commission’s proposal, so that the socio-economic dimension of the fishing industry is no longer forgotten. I shall be voting in favour of the text thus amended. . –  Every year, the European Union produces more than 60 million tonnes of waste packaging. And, despite the objective of stabilisation in the Fifth Environment Action Programme, despite the fact that waste prevention is the first priority of European environmental policy, the situation is more or less the same: the amount of packaging continues to increase in the European Union. In the light of this growing mountain of waste, it is high time that we developed an ambitious strategy. This strategy must involve enhancing the Commission’s modest proposal; in other words, by introducing prevention and producer responsibility. The European Parliament has already expressed itself in favour of raising recycling targets and improving prevention by introducing producer responsibility. The Commission’s proposal has not taken this on board. Yet, prevention is a genuine priority in the area of waste management, and could even become the cornerstone of the European environmental policy. We have before us a real opportunity to move forward in terms of an integrated product policy and the thematic strategy of the Sixth Environmental Action Programme. I shall support the report, which also emphasises two concepts that are key to a successful environmental policy: cooperation, which we need from everyone, and the fact that the impact we have on the environment should always, in future, guide our action. The Commission’s proposal seeks, among other things, to amend Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999 by abolishing the aid provided under the current system for the renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleet. It is obvious, of course, that we must achieve optimum equilibrium between fleet size and fisheries resources, but it must not be achieved at any price, and certainly not at the expense of the men and women who earn their livelihoods from fishing and who keep fishing alive. In other words, a genuine fisheries policy is not just about adopting rules on fish stocks. It is also about an economic activity with a very strong social impact, and we must not forget that. Moreover, the abolition of State aid for the modernisation and renewal of the fishing fleet is unacceptable because these programmes do not contribute to over-capacity, or to over-fishing, or to unfair competition between Member States. I believe, in fact, that the only effective and relevant instrument that can be used to manage fish stocks, provided that it is well monitored, is the TAC and quota system. The amendments are along these lines, and it is therefore the amended form of this text that will receive my vote in favour. .I would firstly like to thank both our rapporteur from the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, Mr Francesco Musotto, and indeed the whole of this committee for the high quality work they have presented. To vote for this report is, as far as I am concerned, first and foremost to underline the fact that the principle of cohesion and thus of solidarity and the integration of the peoples and territories of the Union is enshrined in the Treaties and, this being the case, it is essential that it be defended. The fact that the progress made has been uneven, and, more importantly, that unacceptable regional disparities remain, giving rise to the marginalisation of the less developed regions, should therefore be underlined – and this report does so – in an appeal to the States to support the efforts for regional economic convergence made at European level. The report’s authors, who, quite rightly, think it essential to ensure an extremely high degree of consistency between action taken at a European level under the heading of cohesion policy, and Member States’ domestic policies that support development, therefore call on the Member States, in accordance with the principles of additionality and subsidiarity, to support this drive for regional economic convergence instigated at European level, by means, for example, of an appropriate investment policy. This drive is all the more important given that we must overcome the challenge posed by enlargement. Cohesion should, in this regard, be even greater if we want to avoid these disparities between regions dramatically increasing upon enlargement. Finally, I will fully support Amendment No 49, which underlines all the possible shortcomings of the 0.45% of Community GDP devoted to cohesion policy, if we want to establish an effective cohesion policy that brings genuine solidarity. . – First and foremost, I must thank both our rapporteur in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, Mrs Hieronymi and the whole of the Committee for the high-quality work they put before us and their interesting reaction to the third report from the Commission to the Council, the EP and the ESC on the application of Directive 89/522/EEC “Television without frontiers”, whose main objective is to put a legal framework in place to promote the free movement of audiovisual broadcasting services within the single market and to guarantee certain general interests such as the promotion of cultural diversity and the protection of consumers and of minors. Many reasons can be given to justify my vote in favour of this report; I shall simply mention them. Taking into account that 98% of homes have a television, the report firstly and quite rightly points out that the social impact of television is becoming increasingly significant, especially for children. Meanwhile, regarding the protection of minors, the report asks the Member States to step up their dialogue, to define common solutions without threatening their independence in terms of national restrictions for the protection of minors. This can be put in another way by saying that the audiovisual sector plays an essential role in democracy and informing the people, and is therefore emerging as a reflection of the level of freedom of expression and plurality of ideas that can be expressed and understood. Moreover, the report also highlights the extent to which the audiovisual sector is a leading sector both in the economy and for employment in the European Union: in 1997, the audiovisual sector employed more than a million people in Europe and its revenue should increase by 70% between now and 2005. –  The Community policy of cooperation and development is designed to promote lasting development and economic expansion in the developing countries, as well as the latter’s integration into the world economy and the fight against poverty. If the obvious correlation is borne in mind between poverty and the absence of rights where reproduction and sexuality are concerned, achieving such an objective necessarily entails putting in place a Community tool designed to further policies and actions relating to health and to rights in connection with reproduction and sexuality. It is in fact very clear to me that one of the results of development is a lasting improvement in the health and well-being of populations. It is therefore a matter of urgency to provide support to the women of these countries, which account for 99% of the 600 000 women who die each year as a consequence of pregnancy, and, through modern family planning, to provide help and information to couples, so enabling them to decide freely and responsibly how many children they want. Each year, a third of pregnancies are in fact unwanted or unplanned. This situation leads women to have recourse to abortions carried out in dangerous conditions, and it causes as many as 78 000 deaths each year. . –  This report represents a major step forward on the road to building a social and employment Europe. It draws on the Lisbon Summit conclusions, with a view to achieving an agreement at Nice on establishing a European Social Agenda, as a foundation of European social policy for the next five years (2000-2005). It offers a global and coherent vision of what a genuine social policy could look like, by linking economic, social and employment aspects. It uses all the instruments that now exist at European Union level – the Social Charter, the employment chapter, the legal base of Article 13 – to combat all forms of discrimination, etc. Our rapporteur endorses the European Commission's proposals, while supplementing them with a call for stronger European social legislation. He calls for the role of the social partners concerned, and dialogue with them, to be reinforced in the framing of legislation. However, in the event of dispute, our committee urges the executive Commission to make use of its right of initiative and to propose adequate legislation. It is important to achieve a more social Europe, therefore to have more European social legislation. Furthermore, the rapporteur asks us to support the Member States in their endeavours to establish a minimum wage and the right to a minimum pension so that every individual can live in dignity. I can only urge you to support this report, which, like the Charter of Fundamental Rights, embodies the values we share and that ensure that our Union is not just reduced to a market. . The current division between the Member States on key foreign policy issues is lamentable. It prevents the Union from becoming a credible player on the international stage. If we want the Union to become a credible player, however, it must adopt a single stance and speak with a single voice. If we want the European Union to defend its objectives and its values on the international stage and contribute to peace, freedom and stability in the world, in accordance with the principles of the United Nations and international law, it urgently needs to develop a genuine ESDP as an integral part of the CFSP. This ESDP must be based on the principle of security, a security that is common to Europe and the rest of the world, a sustainable security based on equality, justice and reciprocity, a security based on respect for human rights, democratic control and international law. The Union should be a credible player on the international stage but also a free partner of the United States within the Atlantic Alliance. That is the key message of this report, and that is why I shall support it. .–  This text must enter into force as soon as possible. Some people will undoubtedly say that Article 308 of the EC Treaty is not the appropriate legal basis, that this legal base excludes the EP, in other words that it is denied codecision in this area and, in future, will merely be consulted. The arguments put forward by a number of my colleagues in favour of rejecting the text for this reason are relevant and convincing. Article 95 of the EC Treaty on the approximation of national laws which have as their object the establishment and functioning of the internal market certainly seems to be the appropriate legal base. Yet is it wise to risk postponing indefinitely a statute that has already been awaited by the social economy for several years? I do not think so. I will therefore abstain on Amendment No 1, which disputes the legal base, with a view to ensuring that the text is adopted in due time. –  First of all, I should like to thank both our rapporteur in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Mrs Elisa Maria Damião, and the committee as a whole for the work which they have proposed to us. Everyone is now aware of the significant risks of contracting serious diseases run by those exposed to asbestos, during its manufacture, of course, but also when it has to be handled for removal purposes. It was therefore a matter of urgency to strengthen Directive 83/477/EEC on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. It was in this spirit that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs worked on the proposal tabled by the Commission: our report thus calls for a reduction in asbestos exposure limits for certain activities, in particular demolition, maintenance, repairs and specialised electrical and plumbing work. The report also underlines the need for Member States to introduce dissuasive sanctions against breaches of legislation on removing asbestos. Finally, the report provides for training for workers who are exposed to asbestos. This is an essential initiative and an effective strand of our policy on health and safety in the workplace. . –  Conclusion No 3 of the Tampere European Council is clear: the European Union must stop illegal immigration. By introducing a short-term residence permit for victims of action to facilitate illegal immigration or trafficking in human beings who assist Member States in combating the networks by cooperating with the courts or the police, this directive attempts to find a solution to the serious problem posed by the increase in illegal immigration, and in particular the problem of the growth of networks of smugglers who are not acting on humanitarian grounds, not forgetting the exploitation of foreign nationals in the form of trafficking in human beings. This permit, which is renewable every six months, is accompanied (Article 12) by an authorisation for the holder to have access to the labour market, vocational training and education. At the committee stage, however, the vote went in favour of an amendment by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market which blocks such access for the holders of this residence permit. I shall therefore not support this report unless Amendments Nos 27 and 7, which delete Article 12 of the Commission’s proposal, together with the corresponding recital, are rejected, because if they are not, then the very essence of this directive is at stake. .–  As it aims to ensure that the current programme of action to combat violence against children, young people and women will continue after its expiry at the end of 2003, it must be possible to implement this second phase of the Daphne programme without delay. This programme cannot, however, be implemented in the most effective way possible with the level of funding provided for by the Commission. The amount in question – EUR 40 million – strikes me in fact as quite insufficient if we really want to allow a larger number of non-governmental organisations to benefit from the programme and if the idea is to meet the needs of the new Member States. It follows that funds commensurate with the issues at stake must be made available to enable the programme to be continued with and extended to the new Member States. It also appears to me that it would be a desirable development in dealing with violence as a violation of human rights if the programme were on a more appropriate legal basis than Article 152 of the EC Treaty. .– The aim of the directive, which is to establish common rules for sea ports in order to increase their role in terms of transport and give them pride of place in intermodality, by means of transparent access to port services, must not be achieved regardless of the cost, in other words by forsaking a high level of maritime safety, effective environmental protection and satisfactory employment conditions for workers in this sector. The directive under examination, however, calls into question the social rights of workers, the subject of self-help being the paradigmatic example: it would allow self-handling to be entrusted to ‘land-based personnel’ employed by shipowners, which would probably lead to this work being taken away from professional docker workers and other qualified technical personnel and given instead to cheaper, unqualified workers. The risks of social dumping are clear. I shall therefore vote to reject this directive, a position that will certainly not be shared by the majority of the EP. That is why I shall then vote for any amendments that seek to increase the protection of workers provided for by the text. . This issue of Community subsidies for supplying milk to schools goes back to 1997 and is generating an increasing amount of interest in each of our Member States, all the more so because it involves issues of public health and economics, issues which are of concern to the European public. If you need proof of this, you only have to read the countless letters which were sent to us when it became known that the European Commission wanted to end this programme! That is why I can only urge you to follow the recommendation of our rapporteur, who is seeking not only to maintain this type of programme, but who is also taking a stand against the proposal of 50-50 cofinancing that the European Commission is putting forward. Such a harsh cofinancing programme could lead to certain Member States refusing to pay their national contribution, thereby leading to discrimination within the Union. Without denying the need to improve the management of this budget line, I nevertheless feel that improvements to the system can, and must, be made gradually, and I therefore urge you to support the European Parliament’s Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and its rapporteur by adopting this report. . – Introducing high-performance and efficient services of general interest for all, that is to say services which play a full role in social and territorial cohesion, means not only acknowledging and asserting that these services of general interest are an essential goal of Member States’ economic and social policies and among the fundamental elements of our European model of society, but also that we adopt and defend the basic principles that serve as the operational basis of these services of general interest, namely the universality of services, continuity, affordability and quality. Without the adoption of certain amendments, including those relating to the framework directive, it is these principles themselves that are likely to fall by the wayside; there is a risk of the drift toward ultraliberalism caused by sectoral directives becoming the norm. I do not wish to take such a risk. Without voting on these amendments on the requirement of a framework directive, I rejected the text at the final vote. . This report takes us back to the question of why we even have a regional policy. In order to reduce disparities between regions, of course. But more especially because, even though at first sight the European market guarantees us improved functioning of the economy, it may also be a source of inequality. Jacques Delors was accustomed to saying that the market was short-sighted and hence the political need to reduce disparities. It is precisely this phenomenon of solidarity which lies behind the European social model, which we are all in favour of, and which gave rise to the idea of economic and social cohesion. This is a real political objective, alongside economic and monetary affairs, drawn up in collaboration with Member States, regions and local communities, with the Commission itself responsible for issuing guidelines in order to show Member States what direction to take in order to achieve the objectives required in the context of programming. This is why I shall support this report, despite regretting the fact that, for timetabling reasons, the European Parliament was only consulted at a very late date on the guidelines intended to assist Member States, regions and local communities in the programming of Objectives 1, 2 and 3. Moreover, I would also urge this House to take into consideration the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, adding a whole raft of thoughts on key areas such as combating social exclusion, support for the social economy and the implementation of the employment strategy. Mrs Schroedter’s report marks a further step towards the transparency and effectiveness of structural aid. It highlights the increasing vital role of all the parties involved, chiefly those involved at a local level, who are the only ones able to define specific requirements and social problems, hence our determination to ensure that the partnerships to be established are true partnerships, which are decentralised and involve all the agents concerned. This is the reason for the request which we are putting forward again to establish a management unit for structural assistance in the Member States, which would coordinate the implementation and administration of aid. In order to do so, the monitoring committees must be opened to include Members of the European Parliament, associations and industrialists concerned by the projects and also civil society. These guidelines represent a step towards the improved effectiveness of Community structural aid. Amended again as such by the Schroedter report, they are a step in the right direction. They also call for a general debate on the future of the cohesion policy after 2006, but that is another subject. In the meantime, let us support this first step. . – In line with the commitment made in Lisbon to a future for Europe involving a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion, I will only support this report if Amendment No 42, which deletes the Commission’s proposal of applying a deadline for ensuring the essential protection of temporary workers, is adopted. I feel it is essential that the so-called principle of ‘non-discrimination’, which states that a temporary worker should not be treated less favourably than a similar worker in the company using him from the point of view of working and employment conditions should be applied fully and therefore without ‘discrimination’! In short, this principle should be guaranteed from day one: there can be no exemptions or waivers, particularly given that this atypical way of working, in comparison with all atypical ways of working, is the one that is most liable to violations, despite Community legislation on the subject, and to shameless exploitation, in other words to a sort of ‘reification’ of employment. In accordance with this fundamental idea, I will also vote in favour of the amendment obliging the Member States to prevent the use of temporary workers to subdue a strike movement. Following the shipwreck of the oil tanker ‘’, the Commission submitted a second set of measures, including the proposed regulation on establishing a European Maritime Safety Agency. This new agency will provide the Member States and the Commission with the technical and scientific support necessary to enable them to apply Community legislation effectively. In formulating its Common Position, the Council has generally stuck to the spirit and objectives of the proposed regulation, that is, solving the safety problems of sea transport and protecting the marine environment. This Common Position therefore expresses our most urgent desire, which is to reinforce both the safety of sea transport and the protection of the marine environment. For that essential reason I shall be supporting this Common Position. Of course, one may deplore the fact that it was not possible to tackle the issue of where this Agency should have its seat, and one may think that the option of excluding representatives of the professional sectors and replacing them with professionals nominated by the Commission does tend to distance this Common Position from the proposals made by the Commission and Parliament. Nevertheless, I shall vote in favour of Mr Mastorakis’ report, which approves that position. Two and a half years after the wreck of the ‘’, there must be no further delay in putting into practice such important measures. This proposed directive dating from 1996 is connected with the harmonisation of the internal market. The Commission is therefore giving Member States the option to authorise the addition of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter to chocolate products up to a maximum of 5% of the total weight of the finished product. The directive also provides for the marketing of these chocolate products containing vegetable fats in all Member States, subject to a label which lists the ingredients. I agree with the rapporteur that we should go back to the text adopted at first reading in this House in 1997 and that we should not authorise this addition and this marketing. I still believe that the name ‘quality chocolate’ should be reserved for chocolate which does not contain any alternative vegetable fats. A study into the impact of such a measure on developing countries’ cocoa exports should be recommended. Finally, I still want clear and precise labelling for consumers. This is a position of principle which is not really open to negotiation, just like the protection of quality products and consumers which we all are. This is why I encourage this House to vote for the amendments tabled by our rapporteur and, in so doing, to take a stand against the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. We are now in the final stages of drawing up this draft directive. Although I am not entirely satisfied with the outcome of the conciliation procedure, I nevertheless accept this compromise which, I am bound to say, is to the credit of the European Parliament and to its skill and maturity in dealing with the legislative process of the European Union. Aware of the unacceptability of discharging waste at sea and the behaviour of crews who profit from a dramatic accident to discharge their own waste with total impunity, thereby adding to the pollution of the seas, the European Commission proposed focussing its action on installing reception facilities for ship-generated waste in European ports. All ports must be equipped with such facilities and, in addition, all ships calling at one of these ports must pay a fee towards the cost of collecting and treating this waste, irrespective of actual use of the facilities. Parliament took the view that this fee should cover 90% of the cost but, following the compromise reached with the Council, this was reduced to at least 30%. This is just a first step. It recognises the polluter-pays principle. It is a necessary step, but it does not go far enough. Let us make no bones about it. If we really want to clean up our oceans and preserve the natural balance for future generations, we must take more radical measures, especially concerning payment for these facilities and the need to avoid distortions in competition between ports. In a word, we must establish a public service for the treatment of waste. For the time being, I can only recommend that Parliament accepts the results of this conciliation procedure. – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Marques and Mr Nogueira Román pointed out in their respective reports, the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds are of fundamental importance to the development of most EU regions, both in terms of infrastructures and from the point of view of social integration. The fact remains that, despite the budgetary aid granted, European regions are far from being on an equal footing in terms of development. My colleague Mr Fruteau is especially concerned about the outermost regions. You will therefore understand that this current context of enlargement makes me fear that the European Union has its attention exclusively focused towards the East, which would be disastrous for a good number of European regions that are current beneficiaries. Please understand me: I am not trying to call into question the pertinence of enlargement, which, of course, means the consolidation of peace on our continent, which in these difficult times, is a noble and fragile objective. On the contrary, I am thinking about the conditions in which it can succeed. I am, in fact, one of those who think that the success of enlargement will be the result of the strengthening of cohesion. But this cohesion has a price that should not be paid by the EU’s poorest countries. In concrete terms, Commissioner, I hope that the eligibility criteria of Objectives 1 and 2 will be very carefully revised in order that the poverty of some does not lead to the end of hope and the impoverishment of others. Enlargement is a great challenge. It is one of solidarity. It will not be surmounted unless it is understood and accepted. Let us not forget this fact. –  Mr President, what I have to say to the Commissioner is far simpler. Very quickly, then, I would like to suggest that other criteria are used for the allocation of funds than just the rate of GDP and of unemployment. Surely other factors such as population concentration and distribution, potential or lack of potential in terms of new technologies and research, and geographical accessibility should be taken into account? And finally, my last question: surely the current situation forces us to contemplate redefining the Financial Perspective before 2006? –  Mr President, although I am broadly in favour of the Dimitrakopoulos report on the Intergovernmental Conference, I abstained on the final vote. In fact, in the course of one paragraph – paragraph 32 – the scope of which will certainly have escaped the majority of Members, the door has been opened to calling into question the current status of public services in the context of international trade negotiations, especially WTO negotiations, without the agreement of a Member State. This is proposed on the pretext of amending article 133 of the Treaty and, in fact, making it possible to break the principle of the agreement of all the States in establishing the position of the European Union as regards services, investment and intellectual property rights. The rejection of Amendment No 57, which would have removed this ambiguity, therefore leads me to abstain on the text although, I repeat, I support its main thrust as regards the IGC. And I am quite sure the IGC will not retain the current wording of paragraph 32. –  Madam President, our regulations stipulate that Members of Parliament must be able to meet freely, within the European Parliament, any person resident on Union territory, and the quaestors are responsible for this, pursuant to the terms of Rule 25. The fact remains, Madam President, that it is still necessary to actually make it possible for such persons to have access to Parliament. Last week, a group of schoolchildren from a school in France was unable to pay a visit to the European Parliament in Brussels, as expected, because some of its pupils, nationals of a country outside the European Union, did not receive an entry/exit visa to the area concerned in sufficient time. Would it be possible, Madam President, for you to refer the matter to the Member States, in order to establish an automatic simplified visa which may be made available within far shorter time limits so that all the schoolchildren invited to meet us when they come on school trips may actually be permitted to make the trip to the European Parliament, be it in Brussels or Strasbourg. Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union needs an industrial policy. Enlargement makes it even more necessary, and that policy cannot be reduced to competition policy alone. Competition policy alone can neither respond to the social challenges and to the risk of sudden relocations to areas of low taxation and low wage costs, nor can it satisfy the ambition of having an excellent innovative industry with a high level of skill and added value providing a large number of quality jobs. This ambition of excellence ought to be ours for the present Member States as for the candidate countries. We must reject any kind of fatalism that says Europe is doomed to de-industrialise or to see its industries concentrated in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe alone. As Mr Herzog said, I do not believe that the answer to this vision of renunciation or to the illusion of a European economy that will remain strong if it concentrates exclusively on services but loses many technological trump cards lies solely in entrepreneurship; we must also look for the answer in genuine industrial strategies, which are still hard to discern in the Commission communication. A real industrial policy must be based on large projects and sustained strategies in sectors combining, for example, research and development efforts with the creation of European champions. By encouraging groupings, for example, we could create champions capable of acting on a world scale, drawing after them a whole sector of job-creating SMEs. When that has happened in the past, it has been on the basis of intergovernmental and not Community initiatives. We can think of Airbus, the defence industries or Arianespace, while there are many other fields – you mentioned several – where much more aggressive and vigorous action would be required. I think it is up to the Commission to take initiatives in this respect, although, it is true, we need to give it the competences to do so. Perhaps we should have an industrial policy Commissioner alongside the competition Commissioner. Finally, as Mrs Zrihen has said, this industrial policy, including the aspect of competitiveness, must form part of a social vision. There are essential questions that cannot be avoided here. I will mention tax harmonisation, the conditions of social harmonisation, especially after enlargement, and worker representation in large European groups, without which there will be no real social dialogue. In this connection, the revised directive on European works councils is still blocked, even though it has been approved by Parliament. Finally, I will mention policy on lifelong learning. I will end on this point by pointing out that in our businesses, in our countries, it is easier to give training opportunities to people who are already very highly qualified than to the least well qualified persons. That is why I hope that our Assembly will vote by a very large majority in favour of Mrs Zrihen’s report and that the Commission will take note of it. – Mr President, I would like first of all, to ask a question of the Council and the Presidency which concerns transparency: when will the European Parliament receive the draft final declaration which the Finnish Presidency has tabled in the Council? It would appear that this long and detailed document is currently under discussion in the Council and between the Council and the Commission. It is the real mandate for negotiations which the Council is preparing to give to the Commission. We would like the European Parliament to be genuinely involved in the preparation of the negotiation mandate and, to this end, this text should be made available to us. Secondly, I would like to mention one of the most important points in future negotiations: the question of services. Not all services can be put on the same level. For us, for example, human health is not a piece of merchandise. Certain services should continue to stand out amongst public services and general interest services. I am also thinking of education. Elsewhere in the world, others have made a different choice and have reached a situation where you are asked for your bank card on entering a hospital before they will treat you. This is one choice, but it is not ours and we do not want a situation where tomorrow, in Europe, the inclusion of services in the scope of the WTO leads to the rules of competition and market openness being applied to sectors such as health and education. This would mean the dismantling of our social model. This would mean changing from a market economy to a market society. The best guarantee for our public services is to place them clearly, and from the outset, outside the scope of the negotiations, as has happened in the case of the cultural exception. I would like to finish – and this is not unrelated – with the question of investment. May I remind you, the European Parliament has rejected the MAI, and we should not let the very thing that we turned away from our door yesterday, when it came from the OECD, today get in through our window coming from the WTO. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, transatlantic relations are going through a difficult period. I feel we must emphasise how paradoxical this situation is, because, as Commissioner Patten said, the expression of European solidarity following 11 September was indeed absolute and exemplary and Europe expressed this solidarity using the resources at its disposal. We can, of course, always criticise Europe for the disparity between its international ambitions and its defence means or the coherence of its common foreign policy, but the fact remains that Europe did display its solidarity. There are lessons to be learned from the weakness of our resources and I support Mr Obiols i Germà’s comments on this point. I also believe that we must recognise that the task of the Commission and the Council is made more difficult by the attitude of a US Administration which, whilst continuing to make demands in terms of solidarity, is totally indifferent to the effects of its own policy on its partners, and on developing countries as well, when you consider the consequences that its decisions might have for the agricultural or steel industry. We all want to strengthen our relationship with the United States, but let us hope that we will not have to sacrifice our European positions to achieve enhanced cooperation. I do not think that we can criticise the Commission for a lack of strategic vision, as the Commission is defending European positions in the transatlantic relationship. Given the intransigence of the US Administration, however, the response is certainly not to sacrifice our values but perhaps to state more generally, at international level, the strategic vision that Europe is adopting to contend with the sizeable problems of collective security and co-development and with the problems of the future of the planet and the environment. This should encourage us to bring an end to the confrontation with the United States. A further reason for our current difficulty is the fact that the United States is finding it hard to accept that the European Union naturally aspires to be an equal partner and on friendly terms, but also to be treated as equal in return. It is up to us to affirm our European identity, as Mrs Bonino said. I think that this will greatly contribute to more balanced relations with our American partner. – The record levels of abstention at the European elections in June, particularly in working-class residential districts, showed that Europe is still remote from its citizens. It is not sufficiently transparent in the way it is run. It is oriented too much towards the concerns of the market and big business and not enough towards the concerns of the population, particularly those who have to endure lack of job security, unemployment and poverty. The hearings of the Commissioners-designate made it possible to offer an initial response on the reform of the running of the Commission and the strengthening of links with Parliament. But it is on the basis of the policies implemented that Europe will be judged and that the confidence of the citizens must be regained. What are the prospects for social Europe? What protection mechanisms when confronted with economic forces increasingly dominated by the financial world? What new employment policy? What major collective projects to prepare the way for the future and to sustain growth? What will Europe’s environment and its concept of sustainable development be like? And, going on from that, what approach to negotiations with the WTO in order to defend the uniqueness of the European social model and to promote a new type of co-operation between the countries of North and South? On these questions, the statement by President Prodi did not provide the expected responses. The guidelines presented are still far removed from the priorities which were at the centre of the campaign by Socialists, in France and also in many other countries. We have no doubts as to the character, the honesty and the competence of the Commissioners-designate. From this point of view, the personal attacks, with no real justification, by a party of the right and of the extreme Right upon a Socialist leader are unacceptable. The vote of no confidence which they are calling for must be rejected. I shall vote in favour of the appointment. But this approval of the membership of the Commission, which must be capable of getting down to work, is not tantamount to a vote of confidence in a political programme which has not yet been presented, which must be debated with Parliament at the earliest opportunity, and which must take into account the aspirations and expectations of the citizens of Europe. – Madam President, Commissioner, I think that the Union should learn the lessons of this failure in Cancún, in order to avoid making the same mistakes in the future, and should rethink its strategy in order to prepare the indispensable initiatives for relaunching multilateralism. First, with regard to the emergence of these new groups of developing countries, I think that President Prodi was right, in Bologna last week, to stress that the nature of G21 and the will to make a political affirmation which it expressed were underestimated and misunderstood. I think that to seek to divide it or to set other developing countries against this group was wrong. It was useless and it diverted us from the indispensable political dialogue and trust which we needed to try and re-forge with it. Of course, the emergence of these groups, such as the subsequent G90, will make discussions and negotiations more difficult for us within the WTO. This is a challenge for the European Union, but it is also the pledge of a fairer trade system which responds better to the concerns of all the continents, especially of those who have not so far been the winners from the establishment of the WTO. Secondly, on the Singapore issues. I think that the negotiations were already fairly complicated on agriculture and the other questions which come under the jurisdiction of the WTO. There was also the outstanding balance of the commitments which were made in Doha and not respected, especially the deadlines which were not respected, not to mention the issues which we knew the majority of developing countries did not want. This was too classic a bargaining approach between defensive and offensive issues which did not match the situation and demonstrated, here too, a poor understanding of the deep-seated refusal to deal with these Singapore issues. I think that, if we want to save multilateralism today, it is only conceivable if we propose an in-depth reform, not only of the working of the WTO – this Parliament has made proposals for which I had the honour of acting as rapporteur – but also of its rules, of its priorities and of its doctrines, as previous speakers said. I think that we have to reinsert the commercial rules, in order for them to be better accepted by everyone as a whole, into a concept of world governance. Without doubt we need to replace the WTO in the system of the United Nations, because what Commissioner Prodi said earlier about relations with the other agencies comes down to that, perhaps under the control of an ‘economic and social security council’, as proposed by the former president of the Commission, Jacques Delors. –  Mr President, Commissioner, Europe will soon be alone in continuing to advocate total liberalisation of the electricity market. Even the United States is recovering from the California and Enron affairs. In Latin America, liberalisation has been marked by failure. In the United Kingdom, the state is facing the bankruptcy of British Energy. In Sweden, prices rose this winter by over 50% because of tensions between supply and demand. Electricity is a sector which requires long-term investment. It is concerned with security of supply, environmental protection and providing a public service. It cannot be governed by market forces and competition alone. In a number of our countries – my own, for example – the public electricity service means, in particular, equal pricing, access for all households, whatever their rate of consumption or geographical location, to low-cost electricity at the same prices. The mandatory total liberalisation planned for 2007, which you are proposing to us, will not allow preservation of the social and pricing adjustment mechanisms which safeguard this equal pricing. That is why we are going to vote for an amendment rejecting the motion which we, the French Socialist delegation, have tabled together with the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left and the Belgian Socialist delegation. We believe that the plan to open up the market in two stages, without even an assessment of the first stage – the 2004 stage applying to all non-residential customers – being carried out before the sector is then opened up to competition for all residential customers in 2007, is an approach to liberalisation that is more dogmatic than pragmatic. Moreover, as regards competition, what we are witnessing is more a powerful trend towards concentrations of companies and the establishment of a market of oligopolies and cartels rather than of a genuinely competitive market. We consider it to be absurd that total liberalisation is being forced on us when the debate on the Green Paper has just been opened and we have not even had time to examine the possibilities of creating a framework directive to safeguard public services. Mr President, I would like to highlight two aspects of the Lannoye report on water. Given that we will be represented at the WTO conference in Cancún next week, I would first like to mention the connection with the General Agreement on Trade in Services. I think that the European Union should make its attitude clearer. If we consider – and that seems very much what you were advocating, Commissioner – that water is a public good, then we should ensure that the public authorities keep control of water distribution in each and every country. Of course, public-private partnerships can be used for funding. But you yourself quoted the comparison – a rather daring one, it has to be said – with what other countries regard as vital. Take anti-missile defence in the United States, for example. No one could imagine suggesting to the United States that they should subject their anti-missile defence to the authority of a WTO dispute resolution body, with rules such as national treatment, most-favoured nation rules, or the obligation to award a contract to any other WTO country if it responds to an open invitation to tender in this crucial area. When it comes to water, if we take your comparison further, developing countries, such as Burkina Faso for example, even if they have access to investors, to multinational companies, should very much retain control over the way in which those investors are involved. I therefore believe that in the context of GATS – and I hope that the Commissioner responsible for development will have a decisive influence on those discussions, and that those discussions will not just relate to trade policy – we should not put pressure on these countries to liberalise their public services, in particular those relating to water, as a  for giving them access to our markets, such as the agriculture market. When it comes to financing, we certainly need a European fund, but I support Mr Lannoye's comments. As in the case of the European Structural Funds, we know that creating a market is not the same thing as creating a community. Sometimes we have to support measures designed to make up for delays in development, which means that public finance is essential. A European fund is vital. We should even establish a world water fund, in the same way that UNAIDS exists at world level to treat persons suffering from AIDS. Private finance alone will not be enough to achieve this, and we cannot be content just to indulge in engineering. This will also mean increasing public funding.  As regards Mrs Morgantini's report on the link between trade and development, I would say that even if everyone agrees that trade can contribute to development, it is still not enough just to open up borders – as some speakers including Mr De Clercq have suggested – as if that automatically gave the key to development. Economic diversification is crucial. We should draw more inspiration from what we have done ourselves. Over a period, in a pragmatic and gradual way and by means of sectoral aid, we have to accept that the countries of the South can protect their own economies. Encouraging them to create markets on the huge scale required is essentially the objective of regional integration. But we should not adopt a systematic, dogmatic, one-size-fits-all approach to liberalisation, because that would exacerbate the deterioration in the terms of trade mentioned by Mrs Kinnock. These countries will of course export in greater volumes and Mr Deva is right to say that we should increase their agricultural products' access to the EU market, and we should reduce our subsidies to limit the effects of market distortion. They will, however, always be exporting products with ever lower value on the world market. These countries should be in a position to export more diversified, sophisticated and industrialised products. We therefore need to revise our trade policy towards developing countries, by giving priority to the aspirations and objectives of trade policy and to those of the Commissioner responsible for development. . –  With this rail package the European Commission is proposing a new version of Directive 91/440, which seeks to increase the liberalisation of rail services, in particular for freight. The amendments of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism broadened its scope to include the liberalisation of passenger services as well. I will vote against both these measures. We should ask why we are speeding up the liberalisation process when the 1991 directive has only just been revised. We should ask why we are reconsidering an agreement, a balanced agreement, reached with some difficulty just over a year ago. The Member States have not even finished the transposition of the revised directive of 2001. This means that we are moving ahead with liberalisation, with no going back, before we have even assessed the effects of the beginning of the process. It is simplistic to assert that the main reason why rail has become less competitive than road transport for freight is because the sector has not been liberalised. We did not have to liberalise rail passenger services to achieve cooperation between national operators in the case of Thalys. What works for passenger services could be applied to and developed for freight services. The will must be there though, and European and national investment at the ready. Let us go for rail rather than for lorries! Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, during the Asian crisis in 1997, as with those which hit Mexico in 1995 or the EMS in 1993, everyone could see the damage caused to the economies of entire countries by financial speculation, particularly currency speculation. Between EUR 1 500 and 2 000 billion are traded every day on the financial markets. In three or four days, this can equal the total figure of annual global production, or global GDP, of approximately EUR 6 000 billion. The bulk of these financial transactions are purely speculative and do not involve any trade in goods or investments. Yet the erratic movement of these massive sums of capital can, in a few hours, cause the collapse of a currency or the economy of a country, plunging its whole population into recession. In view of this situation, renewed interest has been expressed in the proposal by James Tobin, winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, to create a tax on currency transactions. The rate of this would be very low so that it did not affect trade in goods or investments, but it would act as a light brake on the wheels of speculation, thereby checking the multiplication of short-term transactions. Note that this proposed tax, which seems to be producing strong emotions in some people, would be the lowest tax in the world and the lowest in the history of global taxation. Yet it would represent the recapture of the areas seized from democracy by the financial sphere. One reason for the acceptance of this proposal, and of the campaigns by NGOs such as ATTAC, SOLIDAR or others which have popularised this proposal, is that it would release resources which could be allocated to development programmes in the poorest countries, in areas such as education or health. It could act as a kind of asset redistribution in a world where there is both increasing wealth and increasing poverty. Many personalities and institutions have come out in favour of this tax such as the Brazilian President, Fernando Cardoso, the Finnish Government, the Canadian Parliament last March and also Lionel Jospin in 1995. This question has been debated in several national parliaments of the EU. The common response has been that this tax could not be applied solely at national level and that the right platform for tackling this is the European Union. This is the reason for the oral question to the Council and Commission which we have tabled with 37 other Members. I am delighted with the compromise motion for a resolution which we have reached with the GUE/NGL, Greens/EFA, ELDR and PSE Groups. This motion asks the Commission to present a report to Parliament within six months on the feasibility of this tax. It also asks for an examination of the pressures and financial sanctions which could be applied against countries which encourage tax evasion or which maintain tax havens. One of the most common objections is that such a tax would be too complex, but this could be said of any tax. If this argument had been accepted in the past, then no taxes would ever have been created. The motion also asks that a position document, drawn up by the Commission and Council, should be submitted before the next annual meeting of the IMF. The European Union must take the initiative and must also, as demanded in the motion, propose this initiative to the G7 because it is primarily a political question. If the Union takes the initiative, this will have a ratchet effect because this debate is occurring all over the world, including in the USA and Japan. A desire is being expressed everywhere with increasing force that the world should not be ruled by traders but by the people, their parliaments, their governments and their democratic institutions. Europe must play a role in this new international regulation and I am extremely happy that today, with this debate and this motion, this question is now on the agenda of European construction. –  Mr President, Commissioner, some of us did, in fact, go to Porto Alegre. What we saw there was thousands of citizens, trade-unionists, representatives of non-governmental organisations and women’s movements debating and advancing analyses and proposals to change globalisation, its rules and its institutions. From that point of view, Porto Alegre III is no longer simply the anti-Davos demonstration that Porto Alegre I was. These are citizens disputing and rejecting the inevitability of a globalisation devoted to increasing the wealth of the wealthiest, to leaving the poorest on the touchline and destroying the environment. They reject globalisation with institutions and rules that are strong and inflexible when it comes to defending the economic and commercial interests of the powerful and their businesses but weak when it comes to defending social rights, upholding the Kyoto protocol or combating tax havens. This is therefore a highly legitimate protest even in terms of the principles and values of the European Union. Above all, it is an attempt to impose globalised solidarity, or responsible globalisation. In this regard, Commissioner, I do not believe we can say that the choice is between growth and justice, in which case it is, of course, easy for you to say that the Commission does not pit the two against each other. I believe the choice is rather between growth of profit alone and justice, on the one hand, the growth of speculative bubbles, the ‘Enron’ economy and, on the other, more redistributive growth that takes account of social inclusion: an economy at the service of mankind. It is a choice between the commodification of all activities, natural resources and genes and, on the other hand, the ideal of access for all people to the world’s public goods, to water, health, medicinal products, energy, education and public services. These concerns expressed at Porto Alegre, to which we should add cancelling the debt, reforming the international institutions and peaceful conflict resolution are effectively, in principle, concerns that the European Union has at heart for promotion on the international stage. We must therefore consider this movement as supporting us in our endeavours because, just as we cannot change a society at country level without the support of social movements, so we cannot transform globalisation without the support of this global civil society. It represents great hope because it is not based on people only considering themselves, their own nation, their own ethnic group or their own religious group, but, on the contrary, the establishment of new rules on a global scale. It therefore represents hope. We still need to be equal to the questions raised by this movement in relation to the European Union. I shall cite three examples. Firstly, Europe often prides itself on providing the most public aid for development (55% globally). That is true but, at the same time, our agricultural subsidies are ruining agriculture in the southern countries and, in particular, small farmers. What are we going to do to change this, to promote food security and self-sufficiency? Secondly, the arrival of Mr Lula da Silva in power in Brazil has inspired great hope but the IMF is imposing on him an annual budgetary excess of 3.75%. What are we going to do to loosen the IMF’s vice-like grip on Mr Lula? We are part of the IMF. Furthermore, we have more votes there than the US. Thirdly, as regards public services, there is much protest against the privatisation imposed by the IMF in the developing countries. Today, through the WTO and GATS, these countries are sorry to see that we, the European Union, are asking them to liberalise water, postal services and even energy. Commissioner, are you, in order to respond to this global civil society and the hopes of the southern countries, going to change the demands of the European Union so that, in Cancun, we might say that Europe is genuinely on the side of those who want a different kind of globalisation? –  Mr President, I think that, at Porto Alegre, we witnessed the emergence of a global civil society that had already begun to express its views in Seattle and on other occasions. It is essentially a civil society that is challenging current forms of globalisation and the forces that dominate it. I do not believe, however, that we can describe the majority in this movement as anti-globalisation. Quite the opposite. This is a movement that aspires to a different kind of globalisation, which is beginning to create a globalisation of solidarity and which is calling for a globalisation of rights. Secondly, this movement is diverse and, as previous speakers have said, we can make ironic comments as to its diversity, as we have done with other social movements. Ultimately, however, it is diverse because society throughout the world is diverse and this may be exactly why it is interesting in comparison to Davos, where one has the impression that the approaches taken are somewhat unilateral. It is diverse, but it increasingly expresses a convergence of views which are taking shape in the form of a number of common aspirations. These include an environmental aspiration versus the risk of the blind destruction of natural resources, the biosphere, biodiversity; an aspiration for north-south solidarity versus growing inequality in development; a social aspiration when faced with the submission of all economic and social life to a solely market-driven and financial logic, as well as an aspiration for democracy and transparency towards international institutions which play an increasingly important role in global affairs. Europe must lend support to this emerging civil society, to this movement, in order to put forward its ideas. After the events of 11 September, we were told that nothing would ever be the same again. And we thought that the belief would take hold that we should use the same energy and the same force to combat unbalanced development in today’s world that we used to combat the terrorist groups. Unfortunately, as you have said, many industrialised countries, including some Members of the European Union, will arrive in Monterey empty-handed – full of promises to finally respect their commitments – but without any new instruments. That is why I believe that we must look carefully at the new proposals. Let us take, for example, the taxation of international financial transactions. Professor Span of Frankfurt University, a former IMF consultant, has presented a study to the German government. I think that the committee which examined it should consider the possibilities which, according to this expert, would enable us to organise redistribution from a Tobin-type tax, which would make it possible to begin to finance access, throughout the world, to global state assets, the right to water, the right to clean energy for all, the right to education, the right to a future. I think that we should encourage the idea of global cohesion funds, as we do within the Union when we welcome countries lagging behind in their development. We do not simply tell them to participate in a larger market. We tell them to participate in a common undertaking. The vision of competition alone cannot prevail. There must also be the vision of ‘living together’, of solidarity between rich regions and poorer regions, and of access for everyone to a number of fundamental rights. This is what the European Union should be promoting, as well as a multi-polar world. We should help Mercosur to be a democratic entity and more independent of the United States, and establish this regulation for citizens in view of the risks of the abolition of civil societies crushed by sheer market forces. During the pre-Seattle debates, some of us in this House said that Europe should start by demanding an assessment of the previous rounds and a joint diagnosis with the developing countries, before embarking on a new round of liberalisation. We were told that time was short and that nothing could delay the start of the Millennium Round. Yet surely we would have saved time by beginning at the beginning. We should have been slightly more modest and slightly more receptive to the opinions of the people who are not particularly convinced by the results of the WTO or by the results of its work, given the ever-widening gap in development between North and South. Some of us warned against an impenetrable and over-greedy WTO trying to impose its decisions and its choices on everyone, in all areas, according to its own clearly unjustified criteria. We warned about the refusal expressed by numerous countries in this respect. Europe should have started by demanding a revision of the organisation and its operation and a clearer demarcation of its area of competence to ensure respect for other international bodies and conventions, on the environment and social rights in particular. We said that the WTO could no longer simply be followed without understanding the need to place the precautionary principle, cultural diversity, social rights, environmental protection and the reduction of gaps in development at the top of the agenda. We must now consider these issues. Seattle was a failure for those who wanted to continue charging blindly towards generalised free trade and global merchandising. It was a victory for the various branches of the popular movement, similar to the one which rejected the MAI. A powerful protest movement raised its voice against a WTO which, through its rules and structure, has favoured private interests at the expense of collective interests. The challenge was not against the existence of rules aimed at organising world trade or the existence of a world trade organisation as such. It was against the fact that the WTO claims to be the source of all rules, the arbitrator of all disputes and the supreme judge of tomorrow’s world. The social movement formed by many NGOs, civil associations and trade unions has demanded a new type of globalisation, one which is not dominated solely by the logic of blind profit with no regard for people and societies. Europe must support this movement and this new world public opinion in order to promote a different type of world economic regulation. This should be based on the redistribution of wealth and a new balance between markets and democracy and between free trade and cooperation. Europe must promote a multi-faceted view of tomorrow’s world. It must encourage the formation of large regional assemblies which are economically and politically integrated and which allow the people to control their future, to influence globalisation and not be subject to the domination of mega-multinationals resulting from mega-mergers.  If Europe fails to become involved in this movement, in this refusal to treat the world like a piece of merchandise and in the hope expressed in Seattle, the only option left to the people who reject this destructive globalisation will be to withdraw into nationalism. In this respect, the differences of opinion which arose on the subject of biotechnologies and which formed a potential challenge to the protocol on biodiversity are even less acceptable as they in no way corresponded to the European mandate and the position adopted by this House. A new balance between the international bodies must be developed. A world environmental organisation must be created with real powers. The ILO must be made the appeal body for decisions involving basic social standards. UNCTAD is the most legitimate framework for dealing with the issue of direct foreign investments while respecting the democratic right of countries to legislate on environmental and social matters. As for the WTO itself, it must be brought under the control of the people. NGOs, trade unions and parliamentarians must be able to exercise this control. Is it not natural and normal, in view of the ideas and beliefs which we all represent in this House, for the Left and the Right not to be able to completely agree on these issues? What is the point of aiming for convergence at any price when this ends up being artificial and is achieved to the detriment of clarity in our positions? It would certainly have been preferable for all the left-wing groups to try and speak with one voice, while respecting their plurality, and I am convinced that a united European left, whose voice is needed in Europe, could have been formed on these issues. Yet I regret the choice of a PPE­PSE­ELDR compromise resolution which allows nothing to be learnt from the lessons of Seattle and which prevents preparations from being made for the future. I will therefore vote against this text. the debates on the WTO which have just taken place in this Parliament on the occasion of the Schwaiger report have clearly shown that, as far as Europe is concerned, the forthcoming negotiations are concerned with the future of its social model at least as much as its trade. Similarly for the countries of the third world, the question is knowing whether they will still be able to escape the clutches of the mega-multinationals produced by the mega-mergers and stay in control of their own development. For the problem is not knowing whether rules are necessary in world trade. Everyone is agreed on that. The question is knowing whether the rules promoted by the WTO ever since its creation permit fair and sustainable development for all the regions of the world. I shall make two observations: Firstly, the liberalisation promoted in the previous rounds and the increase in the volume of trade have been associated with an intensification of inequalities in development on a world scale. In theory, the leaps forward achieved by some should drag others along behind, but in fact the opposite has occurred. The African continent’s share in world trade is less than 3%. Liberal globalisation has proved incapable of providing a solution to the problem of development and still less of promoting fair and sustainable development. This is the reason why an assessment of the social and environmental impact of the previous rounds was essential before engaging in a new wave of all-out liberalisation. If it has been rejected so consistently, it is because the outcome would have been negative. However, for the European Union, the establishment of an analysis shared with the countries of the third world could have been the foundation for the alliance which we are seeking to build with them on the occasion of these negotiations. Secondly, the DSB (Dispute Settlement Body), created within the WTO, has demanded that the European Union give up its own standards in fields as fundamental as health and food safety or even its policy of cooperation in the case of the bananas from ACP countries and the outermost regions. The question from now on is knowing if it is possible to accept a situation where, if one thing leads to another, decision after decision, ruling on everything on the pretext of settling commercial differences, the DSB may end up establishing itself as a sort of world-wide Supreme Court, imposing its views in all areas on elected governments and parliaments. We would then be witnesses to a real seizure of democratic power. This is why, in the Millennium Round, Europe must champion another vision of the organisation of commerce and world trade. To do so it must assert three main principles: The first is that the objective of this round must be the reduction of inequalities in development between north and south. In order to achieve this, the rules of the multilateral trade system must take into account the differences between countries in situations and resources. Free trade without taking anything else into consideration means that the strong get stronger and the weak get weaker. This is why we cannot accept challenges to the Lomé Agreements and our policy of cooperation in the form in which we have constructed it in the Lomé Agreements with ACP countries, including 39 of the poorest countries in the world. On the contrary, we must reassert the commitment undertaken towards them during the recent ACP-EU Joint Assembly. Europe must go to Seattle with a vision of globalisation which is opposed to that of a unilateral world dominated by a single power. It must promote a vision based on a multipolar world and encourage the formation of regional associations integrated both economically and politically, as we have been doing ourselves for 40 years. How could we refuse others what we granted ourselves, after the war, in order to rebuild our industry, our agriculture and our economy? The second principle should be that the WTO must be “confined” to a strictly defined role, and sectors which should only come under the remit of the sovereignty of states and the institutions established by citizens, because they concern the very identity of each society, should be kept out of its area of competence. Public and social services such as education or health, but also those where consumer safety and collective interests are involved, such as public transport or air traffic control, culture and artistic creation, may not be taken into account as part of trade negotiations. We must resist the onward rush towards treating everything in society as saleable commodities. In the agreements on intellectual property, Europe must resist the patenting of living organisms, it must guarantee that derogations to the general trade regulations for medicinal products used to fight AIDS and other serious diseases indicated by the WHO are maintained. Finally we must defend the principle of the hierarchy of standards. Fundamental human rights and the Universal Declaration of 1948, the conventions of the ILO (International Labour Organisation) or conventions on the environment, are in essence superior to the standards governing trade. It must not be possible to condemn a state for applying the precautionary principle, for protecting its environment, or for rejecting imports proved to be produced by child labour. On the contrary, it must be possible to take an appeal against a WTO decision to the ILO or to the competent bodies of the United Nations. We must reverse the unbalanced situation arising from the fact that having multilateral commercial agreements alone has led to the creation of a legal-style body, whereas this was not the case either for the conventions on the environment or the ILO conventions. Some of these concerns were taken into account by the rapporteur at the end of the debates within the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. Unfortunately, in the course of the plenary sitting, the rapporteur and the PPE and ELDR groups introduced a number of amendments into the text which tone down the social and environmental requirements. Considering, furthermore, the unfavourable outcome reserved for the amendments proposed by myself and my fellow members of the French Socialist delegation and the GUE/NGL and Greens/ALE Groups, I abstained, Madam President, in the vote on Mr Schwaiger’s report. But I believe that one of the most significant elements, on the eve of this new round, one which distinguishes it from the previous rounds, is the intrusion of society, of NGOs and international public opinion into the debate. I believe that we should be pleased at this, since it provides the best guarantee that it will not be possible to omit these issues in the course of these negotiations. For their entire duration, they will remain at the centre of the debates of the European Parliament, I am sure. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, in the wake of 11 September the United States seemed to want to engage in a policy of broad partnership on an international scale. It paid off its arrears to the UN and held consultations with the Europeans and many others. However, since the State of the Union address, a hard unilateralist line has come to the fore. This change of course appears to create the risk of serious aberrations, judging by the Pentagon report on the revision of US policy on the use of nuclear weapons, which could include the possibility of a first strike against Russia, China and many other countries. This creates a difficult and disturbing atmosphere for transatlantic relations, which is compounded by the recent decisions on steel. At the present time, it is important that Europe should reaffirm its role as a major partner whose friendship and solidarity depend on reciprocity. This is essential if we want a balanced relationship between Europe and the United States, but it is even more essential for the stability of the world. Europe must emphasise the impossibility of dealing with the instability, the dangers, the imbalance of today’s world by merely wielding a big stick; it must emphasise that we also need to gain the upper hand in the struggle for peace, that we need to devote the same energy today to the fight against inequalities in the field of development and to defusing hotbeds of tension like the Middle East as has been applied to the struggle against terrorism. As far as steel is concerned, Europe must take a firm line. It is right and proper to issue a reminder, as Commissioner Lamy did this morning, of the need to submit to multilateral disciplines. It is also crucial that we do not hesitate to ensure that other governments comply with rulings that the WTO makes in favour of Europe. It will be obvious that I refer here to the Foreign Sales Corporation. And so I should like to ask the Commission if it has the intention of applying the retaliatory trade sanctions that the WTO has authorised us to impose, given the decisions that the United States has just taken on steel imports and the violations of trade agreements that the United States has already committed through its use of export subsidies. Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for straying away from your usual subjects in order to take an interest in the problem of services of general interest, which is so important to the citizens of Europe. Following the completion of the consultations on the Green Paper, you reported on the general consensus on the need for clarification and legal clarity, as Mr Langen has just said. However, has any consensus been reached on the need for democratic clarity mentioned by Mrs Flautre? What Parliament was asking for in its resolution – and it did not, in fact, do so unanimously, as I think we would all agree – was that the interpretation of the Court of Justice or the Commission should not be the only prevailing interpretation with regard to clarification on the subject of acceptable state aids, or in order to define the correct interpretation of Article 86. What we need is a debate, in the context of the codecision procedure, which will make it possible to carry out evaluations on a case-by-case basis, since it is true that everyone perceives the evidence as a function of his or her historical or national experience. Thus as far as all services of general interest which are the responsibility of regional or local bodies are concerned, it is clear that it is not the task of the Community to intervene. Do people realise, however, that in other countries, both Member States and third countries, the evidence may show that there are national public services which have operated very efficiently up to now? Moreover, many people would consider, as regards the effects of liberalisation in areas such as rail transport – for example in a country with which you are familiar – or in areas like energy and electricity, that it is not entirely apparent that it is absolutely necessary to make competition rules alone the be all and end all of the system. Nor is it apparent that the calculation of State aids and compensation, whether legitimate or not, should be made the subject of a debate. We believe, therefore, that there should be a democratic debate. Mr Langen and his friends very often quote Article 86(3) in order to prove that something is the responsibility of the Commission, but they fail to mention Article 86(2), which lays down that undertakings entrusted with the operation of services of general economic interest are subject to the rules on competition, in so far as the application of such rules does not obstruct the performance, in law or in fact, of the particular tasks assigned to them. It is this that is the subject of our discussions among ourselves, but it should also be the subject of a discussion between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, on a sector-by-sector basis. –  Commissioner Lamy, Commissioner Reding, as you have, indeed, noted, these GATS negotiations are giving rise to a great deal of concern in the countries of the European Union, and this trend is reminiscent in many respects of unrest at the time of the Multilateral Agreement on Investments (MAI).Indeed, GATS does contain provisions on investments too. That said, more broadly speaking, the concern is due to the fact that the negotiations and their outcome will affect much more than trade rules, impacting on the internal rules of the countries belonging to the WTO as well. When we talk about water supply or the postal services sector, for example, not about cross-border postal services but the internal organisation of the postal services sector, it is clear that we are going beyond the bounds of international trade. Furthermore, that raises the question, with regard to both this agreement and the TRIPS agreement on intellectual property, that the WTO might be going beyond its remit. The problem with this agreement is precisely that it lumps everything together: banking and insurance services but also water and energy supply, postal services, education and health, potentially. In this regard, it is Europe’s negotiating line that will allow us to make distinctions and ensure that some areas are not, indeed, placed under the authority of the WTO and its Dispute Settlement Body. The first point I would like to raise concerns the protection of European public services, for we have witnessed a dangerous shift in recent months. At the beginning, the Commission’s position and statements declared that liberalisation offers would not be made in the field of European public services. Then we said that liberalisation offers would not be made in the areas of health, education and audiovisual services. However, European services, public services, are much more wide-ranging than that. In actual fact, we can see that offers have been made in the field of postal services and that, subject to clarification and classification in the WTO, offers could be made in the field of energy and water. We therefore call upon the Commission to take a clear line and to exclude European public services from all liberalisation offers, which must be the competence of the Member States, the Council and the European Parliament, not the competence of the WTO. Secondly, reciprocity is not automatic, but there must be consistency, and the Union cannot ask others to liberalise public service sectors and then expect not to be asked to do the same. We have already requested that countries such as Tanzania, Mozambique and Bangladesh liberalise their water sectors, for example. I believe we must not put that kind of pressure on the developing countries. Quite the opposite: we must promote cooperation, we must promote investment in sectors where these countries need it but within the framework of cooperation, letting them decide what environmental, social or other rules to impose on foreign investors. Thirdly and lastly, I believe, Mr Lamy, that what you have said about excluding public services by revising the agreement and Article 1(3) thereof is not right. It would be sufficient to amend the subparagraph which restricts the definition of governmental services to services which are not provided on a commercial or competitive basis and stipulate that the States belonging to the WTO are free to exclude their public services from this negotiation. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months, a growing number of sudden decisions has been taken to make mass redundancies or to close down companies’ sites. These decisions are usually taken without any consideration of alternative solutions for safeguarding jobs, and are sometimes taken by businesses making large profits, such as Danone, or they may even come about as a result of mergers, which have just been authorised by the Commission, as in the case of ABB Alstom Power. In several cases, employees learnt that they were to be made redundant on the radio, their representatives were only informed of the decision a few minutes before it was officially announced, and, in the case of Marks [amp] Spencer, the decision was announced ten minutes before the opening of the Stock Exchange. I would like to welcome the Marks [amp] Spencer employees’ representatives, who are seated in the public gallery. These events, like those which happened at Renault-Vilvoorde, have again highlighted the shortcomings of Community legislation, when it exists, and the urgent need to adopt, at long last, a general framework to guarantee workers’ rights to information, consultation and collective negotiation, in order to safeguard their rights and to enable solutions to be found, other than those that put their jobs and future at risk. Employees faced with these decisions must be able to count upon the European Union, on its legislation and on its institutions. The European Union cannot remain a framework within which the only restrictive rules are those of the internal market, competition and budgetary discipline, whilst social rules remain woolly, can be avoided and have no facility for imposing penalties if the rules are breached. I shall let Mrs Ghilardotti speak about the general framework on behalf of my group, and I shall focus on the two other aspects, which are the revision of the 1994 Directive on a European Work Council and procedures for mergers and acquisitions. The definitions of information and consultation given in the Directive on works councils are so vague that they provide no guarantee. To define consultation as ‘the exchange of views and establishment of dialogue’ is far too imprecise. We therefore need another guarantee to ensure that consultation does indeed take place at the right time, in other words, before decisions are taken, during the working-out phase, to ensure that the works council may give an opinion, propose other solutions, and that negotiation can be based not only on the management’s plan, but also on counter-proposals from workers’ representatives. I believe that we must at last ensure the possibility of referral to a competent public authority on a national level, as already laid down in the 1998 directive on collective redundancies and, if required, on a European level, particularly in companies with a Europe-wide presence so that, if the procedure of information and prior consultation is disregarded, or if the decisions are blatantly unfounded and other solutions could be considered both on a social and an employment level, the competent public authority can declare the redundancy plan null and void. The 1994 Directive must therefore be revised – I share your view, Commissioner – otherwise this text, which was pioneering when it was adopted, will end up being obsolete in the light of the new drafts adopted by Council, on the European limited company, or by Parliament in 1999, at first reading, on the Directive on a general framework for informing and consulting employees. Genuine consultation obviously requires information to be readily available to workers’ representatives and to be of practical value, such as the opportunity to hold meetings, to have access to experts, or to request support from unions. My second and final point relates to mergers. I do believe that we should really be able to take the dimension of employment into account, and that is possible without amending the Treaties, simply by adapting legislation, because the Treaties already set the Commission the task of monitoring the effects of these decisions on employment. I therefore believe that the proposed questionnaire is essential but also that workers’ representatives must be able to refer to the Commission if, in their view, the merger plan is putting jobs or industrial plants at risk. I also believe that it is not only the Commissioner for Competition, but also the Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs who must, if necessary, be able to question the conditions specified if they do not provide adequate guarantees for job security. –  As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I would first of all like to thank Mr Menrad for having taken into account most of the proposals made by our committee, particularly – and I shall mention them briefly – on the definition of information and consultation, enhancing the procedure, enhancing the role of trade unions, reducing the thresholds for membership of these councils and reducing the time limits for establishing European works councils. I would, however, like to stress three points that I consider to be vital. The first point was mentioned in paragraph 12 with the reference to the 1998 directive on redundancies for operational reasons, which provides employee representatives with the possibility of notifying a competent authority on the basis of information submitted by the company’s management, if they believe that alternative solutions have not been explored in order to avoid redundancies, site closures or if there is doubt surrounding the legality of the procedure. I believe that, with regard to current problems in European-based companies, including sometimes those problems which occur when there are mergers and acquisitions authorised by the Commission and by its Competition Directorate, the issue raised, and which was also raised by Mrs Diamantopolou, the Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs, in the wake of the Marks [amp] Spencer case, is how do employees, their representatives and their works councils go about notifying the European Commission and showing that their social right is sometimes brushed aside because the issues involved are purely financial and stock market-related. From this perspective, I support Amendment No 5 by Mrs Ainardi and Mrs Figueiredo, and personally I shall be voting in favour of this. The second point, which is related to this amendment, is that of sanctions. I believe that we must put in place considerable sanctions which will act as a deterrent, and also specify – and this is the underlying meaning of one of Mr Menrad’s paragraphs, but I would have liked this to be clearer so that employees and citizens are aware – that, in the event of non-compliance with the procedures for information and consultation, decisions to make employees redundant or to close down sites can be overturned. I will conclude, as Mr Menrad did, by asking the Commission to realise the urgent nature of this request by Parliament, not to wait until 2002 and to formulate a proposal that reflects the determination of the overwhelming majority of the groups to see an increase in the rights of employees of companies that are based in Europe. –  We shall vote against the report that Mr Bowe presented on behalf of the Conciliation Committee, since the revision of Directive 90/200 on deliberate release of GMOs has not met its anticipated objectives. Yet, with regard to a question that is so fundamentally important to our citizens, the European Parliament should have reached agreement on all the issues that were raised and on the simultaneous implementation of all the measures which safeguard the precautionary principle. Admittedly, some progress has been made on the previous directive (such as exemptions for pharmaceutical products and renewal of authorisation). However, we would not want to accept a directive that did not ensure traceability, labelling or the responsibility of producers. How can we contemplate releasing GMOs if manufacturers do not accept their full liability and if we do not have a directive which regulates the issue of traceability and labelling of GMOs. The Commission has made known its intention to table draft directives – but when will these be approved? What provisions will they lay down? We cannot vote on the release of GMOs without these guarantees. We should bear in mind the consequences of the BSE crisis, the precautionary principle, our standards regarding food safety and inevitable risks of spreading disease to other crops, in addition to the effects on human health. At any rate, five Member States have already stated their determination to retain a strict ban on putting GMOs on the market in the future, even if the revision of the directive should be approved, and I would like to congratulate them. This draft directive constitutes more of a threat because of what it omits rather than what it contains. During the conciliation procedure, the European Parliament did, however, insist on clear labelling and traceability rules for GMOs, which are essential for consumers who can only take a decision about whether to buy products containing GMOs if these products are properly labelled. This then really is a fool’s bargain. It is more important for the precautionary principle to take precedence over the commercial interests of various multinational companies and that the protection of European consumers is the only aspect that we take into account. –  Mr President, when the United States recently faced the threat of an anthrax attack, the authorities needed adequate and cheap supplies of medicine to treat the illness. They therefore took it upon themselves to oblige the pharmaceutical laboratory concerned to provide the medicines more cheaply. Had the laboratory refused to do this, the United States authorities would have resorted to a compulsory licence. I would remind you that, at that time, no one required the United States to consult the World Health Organisation first to check if anthrax was on the list of diseases deemed to be admissible in this case. The United States was not required to negotiate the conditions for the potential production of such a generic medicine. Why then are certain developing countries now being required to do so? I will now move on to my second point. I believe Mr Clegg was right to cite the Doha declaration. I think my fellow Members were right to remind us that an undertaking was implemented and that this undertaking should be respected. According to the undertaking nothing in the interpretation of the agreements on intellectual property should prevent developing countries and WTO member countries from tackling their public health needs, whether or not they have the capacity to produce medicines. These countries should therefore be allowed to make their own decisions on this. Those with the capacity to produce medicines should be able to decide the circumstances in which they might need to resort to compulsory licences. Those without the capacity to produce medicines should be able to decide the circumstances in which they might need to resort to parallel imports. These imports would be legal, as they would be sanctioned by the state. Mr Rod and Mr Wijkman are therefore right, as are others like Mr Van den Berg, when they say that we would be imposing on the poorest countries conditions which do not apply to industrialised countries or to developing countries with the capacity to produce medicines. I think we are now faced with the difficult task of finding a simple and effective solution to the problem. Any solution must not entail long and costly negotiations and procedures. The latter would eventually cost the lives of millions of sick people who would die without access to treatment. We heard that our fellow Member, Mr Tannock, is more concerned about the possible fall in the profits of certain industries than the fate of the sick. Mr Lamy, you are clearly under pressure from certain quarters, including the European industries. I urge you not to give way to these pressures! Please speak for the people of Europe. The people want us to help the sick in developing countries. – Mr President, Commissioner, the Cancun Conference is not looking good. There is the feeling that the European Union is going to make it even more complicated with its negotiation strategy. That Cancun is not looking good is due to the frustrations that have built up among developing countries since the end of the Uruguay round, frustrations which have already led to the failure of the Seattle Conference. Once again, their confidence is being tested, as many of the significant commitments made in Doha were not honoured and the deadlines not respected. This is true of such issues as access to medication, but also of special and differential treatment, the issues surrounding implementation, and of reform of the regulations on dispute settlement. This is about what Europe is going to achieve during these negotiations by using its considerable clout. Is it going to use it in order to provide answers that restore developing countries’ confidence, or will it go no further than a narrow vision of its commercial interests? Let us look at the Singapore subjects. Why is there this insistence on imposing a multilateral agreement on investments on the developing countries at all costs, when they do not want it? They cannot see why the rules and conditions for foreign investment in their countries should be governed by the WTO. However, you insist on making it one of the European Union’s conditions for an agreement in Cancun. Do you not feel that this is an extra burden that serves no purpose? You are entering into a wrestling match between the European Union and the developing countries. Rather than that, we would prefer an alliance between the European Union and the countries of the South. You have also heard many different speakers from different groups in this House asking you to concentrate on the essentials. Use your clout, the European Union’s considerable influence, to improve special and differentiated treatment, to make progress towards access to the markets, to bring about reform of dispute settlement, to ensure that the environment is taken into account, to promote access to medication, and not to serve an agreement on investments, public markets or competition, which should not be the responsibility of the WTO. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the transition from the GATT era to that of the WTO changed the dimension as well as the nature of the multilateral trading system. With the advent of the WTO, trade rules were extended to a large number of new areas, including services, intellectual property, investment and rules on non-tariff barriers, that frequently affect non-trade issues. These rules have a binding force, which is backed by a dispute settlement system with the capacity to impose sanctions. Finally, enlargement, which begun under GATT, has resulted in an unprecedented diversity among its members with regard to international trade. The rules of the multilateral trading system now apply not only to the countries that account for most of world trade or only to the one-fifth of world production that is traded across borders. They also apply to goods and services that will never be traded internationally. All countries are concerned and their internal rules affected, whatever their share of international trade. In recent years, trade agreements have also had a growing impact on other international rules in areas such as the environment, health and social rights. Thus, WTO agreements or decisions have threatened the precautionary principle, environmental protection and access to medicines. The cause of this is partly the ambiguity of some agreements, such as the agreement on intellectual property, in the case of medicines, but with regard to public services, the scope of Article 1 of the General Agreement on Services is also to blame. To this, we can add another reason for the undermining of the multilateral trade system: the democratic legitimacy of the WTO, an intergovernmental organisation, in principle, relies firstly on the equal participation of all members, on the fact that they have an equal say in the organisation. Most of the developing countries, however, feel marginalised by its operation and cut off from the decision making process. At least 24 developing countries that are members of the WTO have no permanent representation in Geneva, and numerous others have only very small delegations that do not allow them to follow all of the proceedings that concern them. Many developing countries lack the necessary competences. In such situations, form and content are real issues for developing countries because the rules and agreements more often reflect the interests of the trading powers that have negotiated them between themselves, sometimes in ‘green rooms’ or in informal meetings, which are far too secretive – than the interests of all members, particularly of the poorest countries. Consequently, since the Uruguay Round, many developing countries have stated that they were not aware, when they signed, of all the legal, administrative and financial consequences of agreements such as the TRIPS agreement on intellectual property, which were drawn up without their involvement. Generally, where the developing countries are concerned, six years on from the creation of the WTO, the picture before us reveals a limited opening up of markets in the north, considerable difficulties in implementing agreements and persistent marginalisation from the workings of the WTO. This feeling is more acute still for the least developed countries (LDCs), which, twenty years ago, accounted for 0.6% of international trade. Today the figure stands at only 0.4%. The WTO, therefore, continues to be dominated by the large trading powers, and it is they that benefit overwhelmingly from its policies. And, two years after Seattle, the multilateral trade system is still undergoing a threefold crisis of democratic legitimacy, as a consequence of the uneven distribution of the benefits of world trade, of the marginalisation of many of its members, as a result of the impact of some WTO rules on other basic principles, even at international level, and lastly due to a lack of transparency and the limited involvement of parliaments and civil society in the work of the WTO. Although the WTO has started to acknowledge the need for reform, this recognition has yet to be translated into the necessary changes. As you know, Commissioner, our committee, therefore, adopted, by a large majority – 48 votes to 5, with 1 abstention – a report which is noteworthy above all for its set of practical proposals, grouped into four main chapters. First of all, the equal and effective participation of all members is a key factor in any new direction for the multilateral trading system. This will require an increase in the provision of technical assistance. The Commission has already undertaken a number of actions and we urge it to persevere in this direction. We propose going further, however. The Commission should propose the creation, for example, on the basis of a contribution proportional to each member’s share of international trade, of a fund or an increase in the WTO’s budget, which would enable all member countries to have a representation in Geneva. We propose supporting regional representations, which is already being done, specifically for the ACP countries, but we feel that we need to go further; we need to establish internal transparency; until all members have a representation, we must allow non-resident countries to have rapid access to records of meetings and draft agreements; we must establish clear rules on so-called ‘informal’ consultations to allow all countries that wish to take part to do so, by publishing agendas in advance and by ensuring that reports of prior decisions, which are sometimes prepared, are provided to the competent bodies in good time. We also propose that the dispute settlement system be reformed, because there are still inequalities linked to the market share of the various member countries, to ensure that the small countries, those that account for a small proportion of international trade, can, in certain circumstances, seek financial compensation. Secondly, there is the issue of opening the WTO up to society and external transparency. We feel that much remains to be done in this area before we reach the level of other organisations, within which observer status has been given to non-governmental organisations. We feel that the dispute settlement procedure itself could, given the judicial nature of the procedures, be held in public, as is the case in court proceedings. Thirdly, there is the issue of parliamentary control, which was mentioned in the previous debate, at both national and European level and also by means of a consultative parliamentary assembly within the WTO. Where the European Union is concerned, we propose that Article 133 of the EC Treaty be reformed, that the 133 committee be opened up to Parliament's representatives, and that the European Parliament’s assent be required for all trade agreements. Fourthly, there is the balance between international standards and establishing new relationships between the WTO and other international organisations. We propose that all other multilateral organisations, such as the International Labour Organisation, the World Health Organisation, etc., be given observer status within the WTO and that their opinion be systematically sought by the dispute settlement body when there is a risk of conflict between trade rules and other rules. In our view, the European Union should propose a de facto hierarchy of standards at international level, with which all countries must comply. In other words, it should recognise that business law or trade law cannot supplant the principles of environmental protection, public health and respect for the social rights of workers. It must fall to the ILO, and the ILO alone, to decide whether or not it is appropriate to adopt retaliatory measures and to impose trade sanctions on countries, and not the World Trade Organisation. I feel, however, that the WTO must give a commitment to respect any decisions that the ILO may take on such matters. To conclude briefly, Mr President, I would say that trade policy, which is one of the oldest of the EU’s policies and its oldest external common policy concerns, of course, economic interests, but it also says a great deal – or, in any event, the European Union says a great deal – by means of this trade policy, about its vision of the world and of north-south relations in particular. It also reveals a belief in a division between that which is the domain of the market and that which societies must do in the name of principles, such as, solidarity. This policy must reflect the Union's fundamental values and objectives. For this reason, the EU’s priorities must be the establishment of fair and equitable trade, a democratic multilateral system, and a reformed WTO. –  Madam President, Commissioner, as has already been said, I believe it is desirable for Europe and the United States to work together in partnership. It stands to reason. All this rhetoric about partnership should not mean, however, that we evade the choices Europe has to make and the difficulty we are faced with at present. Contrary to what some honourable Members have said, we in Europe are not responsible for the erosion of the type of historic links we have with the United States. We are having to deal with a very particular type of administration. It was extremely unilateralist from the outset. Initially, however, it did not adopt a particularly interventionist line. One section of the administration used the trauma of 11 September to impose its own unilateralist and extremely interventionist agenda which predated those terrible events. Faced with this situation, Europe has a decision to make. On the one hand, it could be argued that nothing can be done to counter the will of the United States, given the power it has on the world stage. In that case, there would be nothing to do except to give in to the United States and to go along with them, even when it comes to lies and exposing ourselves to ridicule, just like those who tried to make us believe that intervening in Iraq was justified because weapons of mass destruction posed an imminent threat. If we were to go down that road, Mr Elles’ proposal would make sense. It amounts to a free trade zone or in other words a new version of the Transatlantic Market Place. We must, however, bear in mind that this would mean setting aside the Union’s common external trade policy. The creation of this huge market would amount to the United States annexing the European Economic Area. Decisions would be taken in Washington. The United States would not be willing to allow Europe to have its say in decision-making on this issue. On the other hand, we could take the view that Europe has things to say on the world stage and a vision to promote of a world order based on the rule of law. This vision would entail fairer relations between the North and the South. In our view this is important if we are to create a world order that offers everyone greater security. If this is what we want to do, this is not the time to toe the line. It is the time to promote a common foreign and defence policy. There is a paradox here in that Mr Elles said we need to strengthen the common foreign and defence policy while at the same time suggesting we make certain concessions to the United States. In my opinion, if we believe we should promote the statute of Rome and an International Criminal Court, if we believe that we should argue for the Kyoto agreements, the non-proliferation treaty and the end of atomic testing, we must assert our independence. Relations between the European Union and the United States must be rebuilt on the basis of this independence. Our American friends will have to accept this. The current US administration will not last forever and I believe that our friendship will win out in the end. –  Mr President, as many fellow Members have already stated, I believe that the biotechnology industry can bring about improvements, particularly in medicine, but I think that it would be naïve to believe that it can solve all the world’s problems. When I hear what some Members have to say, or when I read certain passages in the report, I am stunned and astounded. World hunger, unexpected climate change, protection of the environment, all these problems could be resolved tomorrow thanks to the benefits of biotechnology. I think that it would be just as naïve to simply disregard the possible risks, excesses and abuses, all the more so because we are already seeing some of them taking place. The risks and excesses could either be curbed or increased depending on developments in legislation both in the European Union and internationally. I would like to make just two points. The first relates to drug patenting. We are now seeing the problems of access to generic drugs to combat AIDS in the African nations, Brazil and countries in Asia. Given the pharmaceutical industry’s propensity for the use of biotechnology in future drugs, I think that this problem will only grow worse and that we will therefore have to ensure that patent legislation does not prevent production and parallel imports of generic drugs to combat great scourges and serious diseases, which threaten the poorest nations. My second point relates to patents on genetic discoveries. I think that a clear distinction must certainly be made between patents on inventions and patents on discoveries, especially since biological riches are concentrated in the countries of the South, in tropical areas, because, otherwise, we will once again see the countries of the South being plundered so that major laboratories of industrialised nations can benefit. In any case, we must put an end to the ‘patenting of life forms’. The third point, which will bring me to my conclusion, is that I believe fundamental decisions, particularly on releasing GMOs, must continue to come under political responsibility. The European Food Safety Authority will most probably play a crucial role in providing expertise, information and recommendations, but it is the competent authorities which must, on a political level, continue to authorise the release of GMOs. As long as problems such as traceability, labelling and determining responsibility for damage persist and as long as we have no guarantees on risks, I believe that we are justified in continuing the moratorium. Madam President, an omission appears to have been made. In the list of tabled motions for a resolution which you have just read out, no mention is made of the compromise motion tabled jointly by the PSE, ELDR, GUE/NGL and Greens/EFA Groups and by Mrs Kuntz and Mr Coûteaux. – (FR) I am not really convinced by your answer for the simple reason that you yourself are aware of the counter-arguments which you have mentioned and yet, on 18 July, in the French daily newspaper, , you put your signature to an opinion column, along with seven other Ministers of the French Government saying, “We must at European and international level find the means to implement a tax on financial transactions as soon as possible.” So what has happened since then? Was it the report by the Minister for the Economy and for Finance, the administration of the Treasury, which so effectively expressed the usual arguments of those opposed to the Tobin tax which thwarted the political will demonstrated in the stance adopted in your newspaper article? Who is going to win the day, Bercy – as we refer to the Minister of the Economy in France – or the determination you expressed back then? Surely the time has come to stop passing the buck? At national level, we are told to refer to Europe. Now, at European level, we are told to refer to the G7 or the OECD. Surely the time has come, specifically, to submit a proposal to the Council and the Commission so that we can issue a coordinated position from the various countries of Europe which will support the position of the other G7 members, such as Canada, for instance, which is ready to implement a Tobin tax as long as we ourselves are moving in this direction? –  Mr President, Commissioner, it is true that there was still talk of a framework directive at Barcelona but that, at Seville, it was no longer on the agenda. Now, the subject is a Green Paper, but there has already – in the year 2000 – been a Commission communication on services of general interest, a Commission report to the Laeken Council and, indeed, many documents and positions adopted by the institutions, particularly the European Parliament. Well then, at this rate, by the time the framework directive is adopted, all the sectoral directives on energy, postal services and transport will already have been adopted, the timetables will have been established for liberalisation and there will thus not be much left needing a framework. The Commission is, indeed, very behind and we can only wonder what this means. Where liberalisation is concerned, we legislate and we set dates without even planning proper mid-term reviews. When it comes to public services, we organise debates on debating documents. Like many of my fellow Members, I, for my part, feel that a precise legal framework is essential to protect and facilitate the development of public services in Europe as an essential part of citizenship. Now, public services cannot be subject principally to internal market rules because their objectives are long-term objectives, not immediate profitability, whether they relate to social and territorial cohesion, equal treatment or, as is sometimes the case, even equal pricing. Thus, these are not objectives which will bring an immediate return on investments, and they therefore cannot be governed by purely commercial reasoning, including where their compatibility and financing are concerned. I believe that, in the field of public services, we must be able to continue to finance what is not profitable with what is, and, therefore, that it is necessary to balance out prices. Since there is going to be a Green Paper, it would be appropriate, together with the social partners, users and local government representatives, to assess the long-term impact of liberalisation in a number of sectors in terms of quality and safety. I am thinking, by way of example, of the British railways, of employment and territorial cohesion. I am thinking of the postal services and the risk that oligopolies will form, and another example is telecommunications. I believe, in conclusion, that we need to give the Member States the possibility of having exclusive operating rights in certain geographical areas and of having reserved sectors which are not open to competition, for the expectations of the Union’s citizens are very high when it comes to public services. –  Mr President, I voted in favour of assent but abstained on the Brok report. This was because of the ambiguous nature of the wording concerning independence of the foreign and defence policies of a future enlarged Union from the United States. The institutional and financial provision for enlargement is not good. There is a real risk of losing ground as regards political integration, and financial programming is patently inadequate. Our own shortcomings cannot, however, justify our holding 10 nations hostage as we struggle with the Council, nor can they justify our slamming the door against the prospective entrants. More than 10 years have passed since the fall of the Iron Curtain. It is now our historical duty to welcome these countries into the Union. We alone are responsible for the delay in institutional reform. Following the unsatisfactory Treaty of Nice, the backlog made it necessary to convene the Convention in order to give Europe a constitution at last. At the earliest, the latter will be adopted after a short IGC in the wake of the Convention, and before 1 May 2004. There should be no mistake about what is at issue today, however. We are not taking decisions on institutional matters or financial perspectives. We are saying yes or no to entire peoples taking up their rightful place in the Union. We are deciding the future of peoples whose historical fate it was to be excluded from the process of building a democratic Europe for half a century. From now on the new entrants will fight alongside us for the future of the Union. They have to help us stop drifting towards a free trade area and set our course towards creating a high quality social model. They will join us in the struggle for a political Europe able to speak with one strong voice in the world. They will work with us on a constitution allowing interested countries the freedom to establish a joint foreign and defence policy, thus breaking new ground for Europe. – Mr President, I would first of all like to thank our rapporteur and welcome the initiative she has taken to engage in dialogue with the Council and the Commission immediately following this first reading in order to work towards ensuring that better consideration is given to the amendments desired by Parliament. Following the mass unemployment of the 1980s, social exclusion risks becoming the new evil which will gnaw away at Europe over the coming decade. When growth returns, it will be a challenge we need to take up if we want it to actually benefit everybody. This is not self-evident as this new growth is very unfair and, as we have seen in the United States for some ten years now, may be accompanied by persistent insecure employment, exclusion, poverty and urban ghettoisation. Growth will take place under conditions inherited from the crisis: a lot of jobs are being created, but there have never been so many insecure jobs, temporary jobs and imposed part-time work. I believe that we must ensure that the phenomenon of the working poor does not become widespread over here as well. For many people, economic exclusion is accompanied by exclusion from decent housing and the lack of access to healthcare, training and culture, with certain groups being more exposed than others. This Community programme does not aim to take it entirely upon itself to combat exclusion in the European Union, but it must make it possible for Europe to take action in a more determined, effective and coordinated way. To achieve this, it must be closely linked to the commitment that the Heads of State and Government made in Lisbon in March 2000 to give a decisive boost to eliminating poverty by setting proper objectives which must be approved by the Council by the end of the year, in other words, before the Nice European Council, which will take place in a few weeks’ time. I believe that the programme will not be fully meaningful unless it is linked to achieving this objective. How can this be done? Firstly, by improving our understanding of exclusion by establishing an indicator and evaluation criteria directed at target groups in particular. Secondly, by making it possible to take better account of the experience of operators in the field, NGOs, local authorities, social organisations and of people who are themselves being excluded. Thirdly, by helping to assess the impact of government policies that are being pursued in the different Member States in order to draw lessons, establish good practices and reflect on good strategies and, in particular, their consistency with other economic and social policies. Fourthly, by helping to define guidelines and national action plans along the same lines as the Luxembourg procedure on employment, based, therefore, on indicators and objectives which are not minimal but of a high level of requirement corresponding to the idea we have of the European social model. The amendments proposed by the rapporteur – which we support – aim to reinforce the programme along these lines. I believe that they converge on a number of points with the proposals made by the high-level social protection group in the Employment Council in the run-up to the Nice Summit. These proposals relate, in particular, to the idea of promoting access to lasting, high-quality employment, to social protection and healthcare. Added to this is access for all to decent and salubrious housing and to essential services; the high-level group mentioned in this connection electricity, water, heating and also real access to education, justice and public services. To conclude, I believe that we will only be able to combat exclusion effectively if we guarantee access to fundamental rights to everybody, because dignity and real involvement as a citizen are conditional upon these rights. –  Mr President, I should like to say first of all, in response to the comment made just now by Mrs Plooij, drawing attention to the large number of Dutch Members present, that it is not only because my first name is of Dutch origin – which it is – that I am taking part in this debate today, but because I believe that all of us are very concerned, as elected representatives of the European Union, about the relaunch of the multilateral trade negotiations. I believe, Commissioners, that the most striking aspect of the communication of 26 November that you tabled in the Council was indeed the U-turn on the Singapore issues. I am glad to have been one of those Members of this House to whom Commissioner Lamy referred who told you to what extent negotiations on the Singapore issues were pointlessly weighing down the whole enterprise. Like Mr Lannoye, I do not believe that the WTO is the right forum to deal with several of these issues. I should simply like to tell you what a shame it would be, today, to do too little too late. You had first-hand experience of this at the end of the Cancún Conference: on the last day, you wanted to indicate that you were prepared to withdraw some of these subjects, but by then the confidence had evaporated and this initiative was not enough to get the discussion back on track. In fact, today you are agreeing to exclude several of the Singapore issues – investment and competition – from the single undertaking, from the overall agreement, while nevertheless keeping them on the negotiating table for the multilateral agreements that you want to negotiate: in doing so, you will foster mistrust and hostility. I think that, on the contrary, every effort needs to be made to restore confidence between the European Union and the developing countries. This provides a hint of the problem that we have when reading your communication. The feeling is that you are trying to learn the lessons from the failure of Cancún, but at the same time you give the impression of only going halfway and of doing so backwards. It is as if you wanted everything to change provided that everything remains as it is, to use Lampedusa’s words. For example, you ask to keep your negotiating mandate, which dates back to before Seattle, requesting that modifications be kept to a minimum. You want to maintain your positions on agriculture. You want to keep the European Union’s initial objectives on the liberalisation of developing countries’ markets and on the liberalisation of services, with, on the latter, a very significant ambiguity on public services, as we have been reminded. You actually say that they should not be affected, but at the same time you state that you want to liberalise environmental services, which are amongst the most important public services. Obviously I am thinking of water. You even make a very questionable assertion. You say, and I quote, that in your view, ‘the WTO is not a structurally unfair system that needs to be rebalanced.’ I think that by making such a statement you are turning your back on the spirit of Doha, which was precisely to recognise in relation to our partners in the developing countries that since the end of the Uruguay Round the trade system had not kept its promises, that it had not worked fairly and benefited the development of all and that it needed to be rebalanced. In this sense, the Commission communication is marked by positions that threaten to delay resumption of the dialogue. I am thinking, for example, of the very severe criticism of the system of preferences or the system of special and differential treatment. The year 2004 must not be a forgotten year. I am glad that you have taken up your pilgrim’s staff to revive the dialogue with the countries of the G20 and G90. It is an attitude that is in stark contrast to the speech you made in Cancún, which was perceived as very contemptuous by some of these countries. We need to set a new agenda; we need to rebuild confidence around the Doha Agenda – but an improved Doha Agenda – and around a thorough reform of the WTO, of the way it works, its rules and dogmas, so that this organisation really is at the service of development for everyone. We therefore need to rebalance this international trading system and not continue to make liberalisation and free trade our sole priority, as these can only be unfair when the various players are so very different. –  Mr President, in Europe, every day, every cow receives on average EUR 2 from the European Union. EUR 2 a day: over 2 billion men and women do not have as much as that to live on. The famine and malnutrition which we are protesting about here are not the result of the earth’s inability to feed its inhabitants, but rather the result of specific political situations, and even of a certain number of international policies for which we share part of the responsibility. Sometimes these may be local political situations – war, the collapse of government, the murderous madness of groups of individuals or of leaders – but they may also be the effects of international policies. Some of these have already been mentioned: debt, the size of our agricultural subsidies which are ruining farmers in the countries of the South, the fact that in many developing countries the farming industry and the economy are oriented first and foremost towards exporting certain products, certain raw materials, resulting in a monoculture which is contrary to the objectives of food self-sufficiency and food security, which require agricultural diversification. This is why I agree with what Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf said just now, to the effect that access to the markets of the North, to our markets, is extremely important, but it is also only an extremely partial view. I believe that strict monitoring is essential in order to ensure that regional integration, economic diversification and food security can be guaranteed in these developing countries. Some of us have just come back from Porto Alegre. President Lula’s victory and the policy that he wants to pursue, particularly against hunger, have given rise to an enormous feeling of hope: in Brazil, in Latin America generally and, beyond that, in all developing countries. If this policy produces results, it will open up new prospects not only for development but also for hopes of democracy. What are we going to do to support Brazil, to help it to make this experiment a success? In the IMF, are we going to continue to require these countries to achieve an annual surplus of 3.75%, while at the same time maintaining that a 3% maximum deficit as part of the Stability Pact is rigid and stupid? We have a problem with consistency here. Moreover, at the same time as you are trying to encourage Member States of the Union to increase development aid, within the international bodies – we could quote the WTO as an example here – policies are being pursued which in some cases are preventing these objectives from being achieved. Finally, President Lula launched an appeal, at Porto Alegre and at Davos, for the creation of a major worldwide fund to combat hunger and poverty. Are we going to support him? Are we going to propose – or rather is the Commission going to propose to the Council and to Parliament – a tax on the wealth created by globalisation, which could be used to supply this fund, which would be managed by the United Nations? That would be a practical response and a strong political signal. . – Mr President, I accept this oral amendment proposed by Mr Deva. If this oral amendment is adopted, my Group will support Amendment No 3. –  Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy sector is not like other sectors, and that is why the discussion cannot be restricted to the question of opening up to competition and the associated timetable. Security of supply, territorial cohesion, network and interconnection development, plant renovation and public service obligations are all essential aspects that involve long-term investment without immediate profitability but which must be guaranteed, if we are to avoid replicating the California crisis. This sector must therefore be closely monitored and a balance maintained between market mechanisms and other imperatives and factors in market organisation. Some Members here advocate opening up to competition. However, when we look at the situation in the various countries, we see that the legislative framework is one thing and the reality of opening is another. Germany, for example, is in theory 100% open, but less than 3% of its electricity is imported. Perhaps it would be better to allow for opening to take place more slowly in order to be able to fulfil our commitments. From this perspective, the date of 1 January 2003 put forward by the Commission for opening with regard to all non-domestic customers is unrealistic and does not even allow time for countries to adopt transposing legislation, where necessary. That is why the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has suggested a period of 24 months after adoption of the directive. In addition to this, along the lines of Amendment No 177 which Mr Herzog has already mentioned, we have asked that the other factors in the organisation of the sector, public service obligation, security of supply, promotion of renewable energy sources, safety of installations and environmental protection be guaranteed operational at the time of opening. Lastly, with regard to domestic customers, households, we must take account of the fact that in some countries, equal tariffs are a key element of public services. Whether the customer lives in the country, in an isolated valley or in a town, they are charged the same price per kW/hour. This is considered part of equal access to public services. That is why we propose that those Member States who so wish be allowed to retain a sector which is not open to competition so that equal tariffs remain possible and equal access to public energy services continues to be a reality in our countries. I hope that the Council will take this into consideration. –  I am disappointed with the answer given by the Council, because Mrs Hjelm-Wallen, the Swedish Deputy Prime Minister, said publicly in Stockholm on 23 March 2001 that she was in favour of a Tobin tax, in spite of the usual objections. I believe that the reasons given by Mrs Boudjenah are very well-founded. How can we refuse to look into a tax which could be very low and which would thus not affect goods trade and investments, since it would represent 0.1%, but which, on the other hand, would enable resources of an estimated USD 50 to 250 billion to be generated, which would considerably assist developing countries to deal with their problems. You are aware that at the Conference on LDCs which was held recently at the European Parliament in Brussels, it was shown that 43% of people in these countries do not have access to drinking water, 50% of the population is illiterate, one child in six will not live beyond five years old, and that since 1990, the debt of the LDCs has risen from USD 121 billion to USD 150 billion, despite the Cologne initiative. I believe, therefore, that the Council should investigate the possibility of introducing this tax, particularly in preparation for the United Nations’ Conference on development funding which will be held in Mexico in March 2002. – Mr President, in the fight against international crime and terrorism, there is already cooperation between the Member States of the European Union and the United States as regards information and this has produced significant results. It must be developed at judicial level in order to improve efficiency, but also in order to comply with our fundamental principles and the protection of freedoms. Indeed, the more effort we put into stepping up international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and other forms of crime, the more care we will have to take not to lose the democratic guarantees and legal principles on which our action is based along the way. Like Mr Watson, I would also mention Parliament’s resolution of 13 December 2001, and, in particular, the principles it set out concerning the negotiations on judicial cooperation with the United States. Firstly, complete respect for the European Convention on Human Rights and minimum procedural guarantees of a fair trial, as confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights. Article 6 of the Treaty establishing the European Union must be mentioned explicitly in the agreement and there should also be a reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which was proclaimed by the Council, by the Member States, and will, I hope, be given constitutional value. Secondly, extradition to the United States must be refused for people who may be tried before military tribunals. Thirdly, extradition must not be allowed if the defendant is liable to be sentenced to the death penalty. Mr Alavanos is right: it is not simply a matter of stating that it ‘may be denied’; it must not be possible if there is a risk of execution. Fourthly, we must ensure that the provisions on data protection are proportionate and effective and only last for a limited period of time. As regards the connection with the European arrest warrant and the International Criminal Court, I believe that, where there is a choice, the Member States must be free to choose between requests for extradition by the United States and requests to hand people over under the European arrest warrant or from the International Criminal Court, but I would like you to inform us of the positions in the Council. Is it true that the United States rejects all references to the ICC and a number of Member States support this position? The United States has asked for a reextradition clause to be included in the agreement that would prevent an EU Member State sending a US citizen to the International Criminal Court or another international tribunal without its express agreement. Is this request also supported by Member States? Lastly, does the Council acknowledge that such a reextradition clause would be contrary to its commitments regarding precisely the International Criminal Court and the Rome Statute? . –  I voted against the proposal to expand the liberalisation of rail transport in Europe. Although the effects of directive 2001/12 on access rights to the Trans-European rail freight network could not be evaluated, because it is still being transposed in the Member States, the European Commission and Mr Jarzembowski propose to speed up the complete liberalisation of rail transport. It is simplistic to claim that the fall in rail’s competitiveness is due to its failure to open up. Passenger rail transport did not need to be opened up for competitive and safe rail lines to be built. Cooperation between operators works – at least where the Thalys is concerned. What Europe lacks is an industrial policy, closer cooperation between public service operators and the development of Member States’ and the Union’s budgets for investment in the trans-European networks. Despite the improvements that have been made to it, Mr Sterckx’s report confirms what the Council of Ministers has already accepted: subordinating safety to profit. I support the Savary report on creating a European Railway Agency, whose administrative board would include representatives from employees’ organisations and which would take account of the environmental, social and safety aspects in line with the proposals tabled by Mrs Ainardi. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Tunisia has undertaken, within the framework of its association agreement with the European Union, to respect human rights and democratic principles. Following numerous violations of human rights in Tunisia, Parliament adopted a resolution on 15 June 2000. But the facts remain. Even if a few passports have been returned, even if President Ben Ali delivered a speech on the freedom of the press and improved prison conditions on the anniversary of his taking power, there has been a marked deterioration in the human rights situation in Tunisia. The human rights league has been suspended, its premises placed under seal and its president, Moktar Trifi, has been summoned to appear in court, as you have just heard, on 25 December. The Secretary-General of the league, Khemaïs Ksila, who has already spent two years in prison, has been sentenced to a heavy fine which he cannot afford to pay and therefore risks another spell in prison. The spokesman of the Tunisian National Council for Liberties, Professor Moncef Marzouki, is due to appear in court this week, on 16 December, and risks ten years in prison. The civil association RAID ATTAC Tunisia, the leaders of which were imprisoned at the beginning of the year, has still not been authorised. The Aloes publishing house, which has been closed down several times, is prevented from publishing freely. The lawyer acting for many political prisoners, Radhia Nasraoui, cannot visit her clients in prison. When militants and those in charge of these associations decide to meet in order to celebrate the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, their houses are surrounded by police and anyone trying to enter is harassed in the street by men dressed in civilian clothes. These men and women are the Sakharovs, the Vaclav Havels, Abraham Serfatis and Nelson Mandelas of our times. We should be at their side because they are defending the values which we hold dear and which the Tunisian Government and authorities have promised to respect under the association agreement. We therefore call on the Commission to ensure that the terms agreed and undertakings made under this agreement are respected. We call on it to intervene as a matter of urgency in the cases which we have cited and which give us the greatest cause for concern. Finally, we call on the Commission to re-examine the conditions under which the MEDA Democracy programme is being applied because we find it incredible that the Tunisian authorities have retained a right of control. As with the countries of the former Yugoslavia, we think that the Union should be able to provide direct support to newspapers, publishing houses and independent democratic associations. –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I, like you, welcome the decision that was taken yesterday in the Social Affairs and Employment Council to finally adopt this draft directive on information and consultation. It is a great result for the Swedish Presidency. There is still, however, a crucial problem which, in my view, is not simply a trifling detail and this is the problem of sanctions. Yet, it turns out that the Council did not support the proposal made by the Commission and by Mrs Diamantopoulou, to provide for, in the form of sanctions, the overturning of decisions taken on mass redundancies, which could arise from a breach of the procedure on information and consultation and, therefore, as a result, to provide for the possibility of re-establishing the contracts of employment of employees who would have been made redundant, in breach of the European directive. Are you willing, would the Council be willing, to re-introduce this point in the text if, at second reading, Parliament again adopts the proposal which was put forward by the Commission? A directive without genuine sanctions that work as a deterrent would be totally ineffective and would not protect workers. –  Mr President, I am grateful to Mr Sylla for withdrawing these two amendments. But I wanted to ask him whether he does not think the same problem could arise with the part of the first sentence of Amendment 54 that has not been changed and which, in the English version I have before me, reads: “stresses that the EU must collect reliable ethnic data as a basis for review”. I am concerned specifically with the terms “reliable ethnic data” and wonder whether Mr Sylla could perhaps table an oral amendment relating to this notion of “ethnic data”? – (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that the market should be the only factor taken into consideration as regards the organisation of sporting events. During the 1998 World Cup, of the two million tickets sold, the largest share was handled directly by FIFA, which sent quotas to the 203 national football associations, with a larger share going to the 24 qualifying countries, of which the United Kingdom was one. Another share, 600, 000 tickets, was handled by the host nation, which reserved 37 % of this quota. The idea of putting all tickets for a sporting event of this size up for sale on the European market has never been put into practice by any country, as Commissioner Neil Kinnock has just pointed out. In Euro "96, for example, the football tournament organised in the United Kingdom, 42 %, not 37 % of the tickets were reserved for the host nation. Secondly, having control of the tickets is to have 90 % control of security. If the World Cup was a success in this area too, if we had relatively few incidents, it was largely because this control over the tickets facilitated for example, Franco-British co-operation in security matters, and efficiency in handling the arrival of groups of supporters, supervising them, and following up any problems. This allowed us to escape many outbreaks of hooliganism, which we hope never to see again on our continent. Thirdly, the more individual sales that are made, the greater the risk of a black market developing. This is the lesson learned by the Italians themselves, from organising the 1990 World Cup, and it was obviously taken on board by the French organising committee. Fourthly and finally, it is understandable to ensure that where a popular sport is concerned, when the host nation has invested nine billion francs in the event, the citizens of the host nation support and participate positively in this event, and this is also a key factor in its success. But it is also understandable that care is taken over the security of these citizens and also that of the groups from abroad, whom the host country accommodates for the occasion. During this World Cup, ladies and gentlemen, you saw thousands of little Zidanes and Marcel Desaillys, coming from the working-class neighbourhoods of Marseilles, Toulouse and Strasbourg to applaud the exploits of the great Zidane and the great Desailly, but also those of the great Owen, the great Beckham, and the great Di Pietro. Nobody could say that this amazing World Cup was tainted by racial or social discrimination. It was an open and welcoming popular celebration. It gave us a wonderful picture of sport, a picture of the diversity of our teams and of our nations, and a picture of fraternity across our continent. The supporters group which was most successful and most appreciated by the French people was that of the Scots. We, the citizens of France, did not go on holiday to Australia in July 1998 because the world came to France, and because we were at the Stade de France, at St-Denis, at the velodrome, in Marseilles with the people from our working-class neighbourhoods. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the European Union"s priority in sport today is not to punish a Member Nation which has managed successfully to organise an event like this, but is rather, as Romano Prodi said yesterday, to engage in a real pan-European battle against doping, and this means refusing to allow the unique power of money to kill off the beauty and the very spirit of sport. (Applause) . –  I am not in favour of suspending the Association Agreement with Israel. Europe has a moral duty towards Israel and cannot forget the responsibilities it has inherited from history. I condemn the policy of the Sharon Government as well as the suicide attacks. There is no military solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We must follow the way prepared by Itzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat, the way of negotiation and peace. Europe must make its voice heard and exert more influence in the Middle East. We complain that the United States is the only country that can do this. That is because they are present in Israel and are guarantors of its security. If Europe wants to contribute to the triumph of peace, if it wants a peacekeeping force under the aegis of the United Nations to see the light of day and help to ensure compliance with a peace agreement and the Security Council resolutions, it must be more present, not less present, among the Palestinians and Israelis. Breaking the Association Agreement will not help Europe to play its part and become the key negotiator it would like to be. The path towards peace is narrow and Europe’s role in this region is equally restricted. –  Mr President, I think that as far as trash is concerned we have had an example of this in Mr Martinez’s statement. I do believe that today the far right is indeed talking trash in regard to the establishment of European democracy and that the Constitution will be a step towards building that democracy. –  Commissioner, Mr President, I think that Europe must state three main principles in this Millennium Round.  The first is that the aim of this round must be to reduce inequalities in development, unlike what has happened after previous rounds. Today, the African continent has a less than 3% share of world trade. The rules of the multilateral trade system must take account of the differences in countries’ situations, resources and levels of development. Free trade which does not take any other factors into account just makes the strong stronger and the weak weaker. This is why we would not be able to accept a challenge to the principles of our cooperation with the countries of the south, particularly with ACP countries, and of course in this context I am thinking of the Lomé Convention. I think, on the contrary, that we should restate the commitments that we made at the ACP-EU Joint Assembly which was held a few weeks ago. Europe must go to Seattle with a concept of globalisation that is opposed to that of a unilateral world dominated by just one power. Europe must, on the contrary, promote a concept based on a multipolar world and encourage the establishment of economically and politically integrated regional groups, as we have ourselves been trying to do for the last forty years. How can we refuse others what we granted ourselves after the war, to reconstruct our industry, agriculture and economy?  Secondly, we must confine the WTO, strictly limit its role and keep isolated from the WTO’s sphere of competence those sectors which jeopardise society’s very identity and which must continue to remain the sovereignty of the citizens and of their elected institutions. Education, health, public and social services, public transport and culture are all examples of sectors which cannot be brought into trade negotiations and cannot be dealt with by an international trade court. We must refuse to join the race to make every sector subject to the market.  Thirdly, we must defend the principle of a hierarchy of norms. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the conventions of the International Labour Organisation, and those on the environment are, by their very nature, superior to the standards that govern trade. We should not condemn a State on the grounds that it is applying the precautionary principle, that it is protecting its environment or that it is refusing imports which are proven to have been produced by child labour. On the contrary, we must be able to bring an appeal against a decision by the WTO before the International Labour Organisation or before the competent bodies at the United Nations. On the eve of this new round, we are struck by the way society at large and international public opinion have forced their way into the debate. I think that this is an excellent development, because it is the best guarantee that it will not be possible to drop these issues during these negotiations. –  Madam President, it is not possible to let Mr Gollnisch impugn the supreme administrative court in France without responding. If he respected the rule of law, he would respect its jurisdiction. As for Mr Le Pen, what an affront to the dignity of the European Parliament and for any true democrat to hear Mr Le Pen using the word ‘dignity’! . –  Mr President, first of all, I wish to thank Jacques, Jacques Delors, and also Altiero Spinelli and Fernand Herman, I wish to thank everyone, from Vaclav Havel to Carlo Ciampi, from Joschka Fischer to Jacques Chirac, from Michel Barnier to Pierre Moscovici, from Chris Patten to Costa Simitis, not to mention Florence and the plethora of current Members of the European Parliament who, since 1999, have carried forward the great movement in favour of an European constitution. My thanks go to everyone from Jo and Giorgio to Iñigo, from Dany to Frassoni, from Richard to Elmar, from Bayrou to Andrew. Thanks to you all, a new idea is gaining ground on the continent of Europe: the idea of a European Constitution. The concept of a constitution is a new idea for Europe, while at the same time a very old idea, dating back to the origins of the modern age and connecting us with the most profound debates on democracy. To the right of us, we have Joseph de Maistre, the counter-revolutionary thinker, who condemned and even scoffed at the idea of a constitution, because a constitution is made – shock, horror! – by man and – surprise, surprise – for man. “But man does not exist”, he said, specifying that he had met many a Spaniard or a Frenchman and even perhaps a Persian, but “I have never met man. If he does exist, it has escaped my notice”. To the left of us, we have Karl Marx, the revolutionary thinker, who condemned and even scoffed at the idea of human rights, because, in his view, the human does not exist in the abstract, and humanity could not constitute anything at all. At the beginning of the twenty-first century, criticisms of these two kinds are still being levelled and, sometimes, there is nothing to separate the two. Nor, sometimes, is there any difference between the crimes and acts of inhumanity committed by men in denial of other persons’ dignity. The lessons we have learnt from the twentieth century, however, is if we see people everywhere only as French, Germans, Danish, Irish, Arabs, Hutus, Tutsis, Serbs, Bosnians and Persians, we end up forgetting our common humanity. Without this fundamental point of reference, at best there is mutual lack of understanding and at worst there is mutual killing. The British and the Irish, the Serbs and the Croats, the Israelis and the Palestinians, the peoples on both sides can only exist if, as a precondition, human beings exist. Taking away their humanity to leave only their nationality is to take away the person. Then they are lost. They cannot accept the other as being the same. All they see is the enemy, and they destroy each other. As you know, the European Community was born out of rejection of this destruction. We have managed to avoid war for fifty-five years! Strasbourg is a place that appreciates the importance of this record. This achievement within the Western half of Europe is something we wish to extend to the whole continent. Enlargement will guarantee this. With peace guaranteed, Western Europe has started to attend to business in search of prosperity. Let us not criticise commercial Europe too much, I speak as a Socialist: it provides greater wealth to all of us. Yet the European Union should not be described as just one large marketplace, it has other purposes as declared in the Treaties: European integration, freedom, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, fundamental social rights. Peace, prosperity, democracy and justice are values which, each in their own way, virtually all the Members and the groups in Parliament, and the majority of elected representatives and political groups wish to see achieved by Europe and for Europe. Democracy in Europe is in better health. Thirty years ago, great countries in the South of Europe lived under dictatorship, and Eastern Europe was subsisting under the yoke of the Soviet Union. Today, we have just experienced one of the last democratic revolutions in Europe, that of October 2000 in Serbia. We feel sure that, very soon, we will be joined by a democratic Serbia. What better evidence of the European Union than this association between the victory of democracy and entry into the great family of the Community! Democracy in Europe is in good health, but European democracy is in a bad way. One in two European citizens did not vote in the elections of June 1999. It is not something that we are about to forget. One in two of my students does not know who Romano Prodi is, although they are almost all quite clear on Michael Schumacher or Monica Lewinsky. That tells us something about how far politics in general have decayed, and just how distant the European institutions are from the citizens of Europe. Some resign themselves to this state of affairs, and others are delighted at it, but not us. That is why we want to see European democracy being strengthened by a European constitution. What do we actually have right now? We seem to have almost everything, yet in the finally analysis we have nothing. Seven Treaties, hundreds of articles, an impossible tangle of standards, preferences, regulations, procedures, core legislation and secondary legislation. The European Constitution does exist but no one has ever found it. It remains undiscovered, invisible, illegible and unintelligible. We want a proper constitution. Let us at least agree on this objective, and if we do agree, then let us state how to achieve it. Parliament is proposing one route involving two phases, two stops: reorganisation of the Treaties, the fast track, and adoption of a constitution, the gradual track. The report proposes these two phases as commitments that should be entered into at Nice, because it is possible. It also states that before being completed, there should be a European referendum, because it is a dream which we need. At all events, do not kill it off today. If we want to achieve it, then we can, all together, citizens, Members of Parliament, and governments of the European Union. Today, the 24 October 2000, in Strasbourg, the European Parliament is stating one simple message loudly and clearly: the European Constitution is something you can achieve and something that we indeed want. –  Mr President, perhaps you – and those who say that European politics are obscure – would like to take note of the fact that the first vote in the enlarged Europe pitted the Left against the Right, and that the Left won it. –  Mr President, you mentioned a change to the Rules of Procedure in your response to Mr Fatuzzo. I would remind you that the role of court jester is an essential one! The parliamentary jester probably plays the same role, and perhaps we would be better off listening to him entertaining us rather than obsessing over matters of seats, which fuels populism more than you think. . –  Europe, however faltering it may be, must be of some use. At its Strasbourg session, the European Parliament debated with unprecedented intensity in an attempt to achieve this. It adopted a resolution that goes beyond mere good intentions, vigorously condemning indiscriminate suicide attacks and calling for an embargo on arms supplies to both Israel and Palestine, for a United Nations international peacekeeping force to be sent, for the convocation of the EU-Israel Association Council to be convened and the possibility of suspending the EU-Israel Euro-Mediterranean Agreement to be examined. Europe is weak: it has no common foreign policy and no military capacity. However, Europe is growing and starting to understand that it must speak with a single voice and try to influence the various players, beginning with the most powerful, the United States. It is too early to say whether President Bush will choose double-dealing or inconsistency. What we can say, however, is that he has chosen, in the end, to distance himself from Mr Sharon. According to the  of 5 April, this is because he has bowed to pressure from Europe, the Arab world and most of the media. In  of 9 April, Patrick Jarreau adds that each of the three protagonists has, in effect, played a decisive role. . –  Mr President, this is not an oral amendment to Amendment No 8. It is an oral amendment to the original text. You have just said to Amendment No 8 (or so I understood from the interpretation). That is not the case. It is a direct oral amendment to the text. –  Mr President, this is not a question of nationality. I would also say the same thing if we were in Brussels. The main cause of health problems and mortality in all the Member States of the Union, in all developed countries, is iatrogenic contamination, in other words, contamination from being in hospital or from taking drugs. This is one of the perverse effects of an over-developed society, whereby medicine that we take to make us better sometimes makes us ill. We are all familiar with this subject. We are not going to mention every illness we have ever suffered in another country. I am not going to say that, having spent four days in Berlin, I fell ill, which proves that you can contract some nosocomial illness there and that you must never go to Berlin again. So, in very simple terms, I shall ask this question. You mentioned visitors, but the visitors have been informed. If, like you, visitors come here, it is because they have chosen to come. When you say, Mrs Wallis, that we have a duty to be here – I would say that we have a duty to stay. What sort of image would we give of the European Parliament if we were so afraid that we sought to impose zero risk and create panic! It would be dreadful and would do no credit to us at all. –  Mr President, I would like to thank you for the comments you made earlier and to say briefly to the House and to the citizens who are listening, that when terrorists become madmen and when madmen become terrorists and kill Members of Parliament, at a time when civilians are the target of increasingly ruthless attacks which seek to eliminate politicians and MPs, it is worthwhile recalling that these people, these MPs, are showing utmost courage to protect the public good. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work that he has carried out. I would, however, also like to stress the pitfalls that might have been encountered along the way, as Mr Bösch has had to deal with the vague desires harboured by various members of the Committee on Budgetary Control, who wanted to refocus the report on previous cases and Treaties, which are also dealt with in other documents. In relation to this, I do not share the view of the speakers who say that the Fléchard case is the main case in the discharge. It probably is if you consider the time and energy that the Commission and ourselves had to spend on it, but it is definitely not in terms of importance. I shall, however, focus my attention on the problem of fraud and irregularities. In a previous report, the Committee on Budgetary Control stated that the slightest fraud of the Community budget must no longer be tolerated. Whilst this call for zero tolerance is extremely laudable, we cannot disregard the fact that putting this into practice requires very significant resources in terms of personnel which is going to be difficult to achieve, given the huge numbers of schemes currently underway, and given the great diversity of the territories in which we have a presence. In this report, it was proposed to remove the distinction between fraud and irregularities, which would be justified by the fact that, when these are detected, we do not know whether the cases in question are likely to lead to criminal prosecution. I would like to express my concern about this position, for which I have two reasons. On the one hand, we must ensure that our fight against fraud does not anticipate the conclusions of inquiries that various bodies are undertaking. On the other hand, we would be running the risk of discrediting the European Union’s policies within the European Union itself if we announce levels of fraud in criminal cases that are much higher than reality shows them to be. Quite the contrary, I think that we must make a concerted effort to present the fairest possible picture of these criminal acts, since it is impossible to treat problems related to small administrative mistakes and large scale organised fraud in the same way. I support what Mr Mulder has just said regarding a classification of irregularities. In the same spirit, we must focus our work on cases of fraud that require us to become immediately involved in following them up because of their scale and topical interest. In relation to this, several speakers have mentioned the case of the adulterated butter. The Commission must be in a position to help us to achieve our aim. I would say, however, that I regret the attitude of the Commission, which sometimes takes too long to answer or provides unsatisfactory answers to the European Parliament’s requests. The European Commission and the European Parliament should work together more closely in combating fraud. This does not mean, however, that the European Parliament has to give up its power to penalise the Commission when it does not fulfil its duties, particularly with regard to protecting the European Union’s financial interests. This cooperation is needed because it involves our credibility in the eyes of the citizens of Europe who have put their trust in us. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, revising Community legislation on medicinal products, with the aim of providing improved levels of care, is a good thing and we welcome this new process of harmonisation of veterinary and human medicinal products. Health policy in Europe should not, however, be limited to the text on which we are about to vote, and should have been the subject of a more thorough deliberation. We must once again look at medicine in a context of public health that serves our citizens, as, although medicinal products exist, they must still be accessible to all men and women, and we regret the fact that we have not had a debate on social protection. For public health policy to take precedence over industrial policy, the Agency for medicinal products must be part of the Directorate General for Health and Consumer Protection once more, rather than the Directorate General for Enterprise. We are also disappointed by other aspects of the Commission proposal. The first I shall mention is that of patient information. We live in a society of high-speed communication and the Internet enables those, who wish or are able to, to access a great deal of information. Although the quality of this information is not always satisfactory, the solution proposed by the Commission to resolve this problem is not the right answer. Giving the pharmaceutical companies the option of communicating information on their products will not make it possible to eradicate erroneous information, but will authorise advertising on prescription-only medicines. This formula, which is permitted in the United States and in New Zealand, has shown its limits. During the last decade, spending by the United States on direct advertising has risen from USD 55 million, reaching USD 2.5 billion in 2000.Out of the total increase related to medicinal products, 47% was spent on advertising 50 medicinal products. There is no doubt that this is a commercial strategy and is not out of a concern for information. This is not what we want for European citizens. What we need is independent information provided by independent sources, which do not harm the relationship between patients and doctors and which do not lead to the excessive consumption of medicinal products. The proposals on the transparency of data provided by the Agency are heading in this direction. We could certainly have gone a little further. In demanding information, patients are also demanding safety and it is doubtful that the withdrawal of the five-yearly renewal will help to achieve this. Let us wait for the new proposals in the area of pharmacovigilance to prove their worth and let us maintain the option of carrying out a genuine scientific evaluation of a medicinal product, five years after it has been placed on the market, in the case of a new medicine. This evaluation could also provide an opportunity to weigh up the therapeutic value of the medicinal product. Lastly, I will say that although patients need effective medicinal products, some, unfortunately, need treatment urgently and hope to have access to new treatments, which, although they have not yet provided all possible safety guarantees, are a last resort for these patients. We must listen to them and provide a response to their appeal. This report highlights some considerable challenges. They will have an effect on the policy regarding medicinal products, but also on health policies. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, France has suffered serious flooding for several months now. First it was Brittany, now other  have been affected, but it is the  of the Somme, and the town of Abbeville and the surrounding  in particular, which have been hardest hit. Hundreds of residents have been forced to leave their homes, have lost all their possessions and are destitute. Every economic and social sector has been hit: road and rail infrastructures have sustained tremendous damage, shops and businesses have closed and farms are in serious trouble. There is much uncertainty as to whether they will be able to regain their original production levels. The persons hit hardest are those who were already the worst off and who have no family to give them financial or moral support. And just as we thought that things were quickly getting better, another disaster has struck and may last for several more weeks. The financial consequences are unquantifiable as yet. There is a great deal of solidarity between the local residents and a great deal of intervention on the part of the government and the French administration, the local authorities, the police, the army, rescue organisations and the community, but it is unable to absorb the effects of this disaster. That is why I think that Europe needs to do more than just offer words of support and compassion; we need to send out a strong message of our desire to stand by the people suffering the physical and psychological effects of this disaster. In order to do so, the European Union needs to provide one-off financial aid so that infrastructures can be quickly restored and economic activity can resume. It is also important for us to reaffirm our concern at the rise in the number of serious natural disasters over recent years both in Europe and across the planet as a whole. The European Union owes it to itself to do everything to respect and ensure that others respect the Kyoto commitments by the stated deadlines and to implement a policy of sustainable development. Mr President, Commissioner, representatives of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must thank my colleagues and the Secretariat of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and the officers responsible in the Directorate General in charge of this matter, for their very good cooperation. It was following essential work in partnership with the different political groups and the representatives of the Commission and the Council that we arrived at this text, which will be put to the vote tomorrow. This is a report that we can be satisfied with, as it places consumer protection at the heart of our concerns. By considerably reducing levels of cyclamate in drinks following an evaluation by the Scientific Committee we are responding well to the demands of European citizens in terms of consumer protection. The Commission undertaking to re-evaluate all sweeteners in the near future is also a decision that is in line with our objectives, as we are aware that we need consistent statistics and that we need to regularly re-examine our positions in the light of the new data. I understand my fellow Members in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance who wish to place particular emphasis on aspartame. However, in this respect we need to take into account the recent evaluations that have taken place both in France and the United Kingdom, and consider that perhaps there is no reason for singling out aspartame, as we know, of course, that it is going to be evaluated on a more global level anyway. Now we need to realise that we also have our weaknesses, and the fact that we were not able to reach an agreement on the subject of defining fine bakers’ wares shows that our work is not quite finished and that labelling will have to be the subject of future legislation. This element of the report also demonstrates the position that we intend to give sweeteners in food. They are essential for treating certain diseases and on this subject, I have received many letters from people suffering from diabetes and other illnesses, saying how pleased they were to be able to vary their diet thanks to an increasing number of products containing sweeteners. There is also a risk that they will be increasingly consumed by Europeans if we consider the many alarming reports of a constantly increasingly number of people suffering from obesity. However, this serious public health problem should not be solved by sweeteners but by preventing the disease. Moreover, some studies have shown that the power of sweeteners led to nutritional behaviour involving an increase in the consumption of sugar or sweet products. We are all aware here that the multitude of increasingly sweet and increasingly varied products aimed at children is not an insignificant factor in this public health problem. In saying this, I am not moving away from the subject that we are dealing with this evening, because sweet products, whether or not they contain sweeteners, are interdependent. I know that the Commissioner is particularly aware of this public health problem. He can be assured that it is a priority for us. In conclusion, I will say that we can consider sweeteners as useful, which is why, through this legislation, we are authorising two new products to be placed on the market. However, we now need to ensure that they are only essential to an increasingly restricted number of European citizens. –  The French Socialist delegation has voted for Mrs Stauner’s report postponing the granting of discharge for the financial year 1998, because it resulted from a compromise by our political group with the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. This resolution reflected the desire of the majority of members of the Committee on Budgetary Control to break the deadlock over Mrs Stauner’s proposed report in the committee, but also in the European Parliament, which was putting our institution’s relations with the Commission onto a defiant footing. The French Socialist delegation is glad a majority was achieved to pass Amendment No 5 highlighting the slippage between the resolution put to the vote and the explanatory statement. By that vote, Members have reaffirmed that only the rapporteur is responsible for the explanatory statement. The proposed report Mrs Stauner submitted to the Committee on Budgetary Control caused consternation far beyond the members of the committee itself. Indeed, the proposed document bore little relation to the discharge procedure, which is about approval of the accounts for the financial year and the propriety of the expenditure. The resolution put to the vote in Parliament today presents a catalogue of reasonable demands and recommendations to the Commission. The postponement and the response time given to the Commission allow it to answer the questions from the Committee on Budgetary Control within the set time. They leave the Committee on Budgetary Control sufficient time to prepare a report which will rule effectively on the implementation of the 1998 budget by the Commission. Commissioners, among your numerous proposals, you referred to the added value of medicines. I believe that this is a crucial point. A large number of new medicines now coming onto the market are, unfortunately, rarely innovative. What practical measures do you envisage for encouraging industry to produce not only new but also innovative medicines? You also raised the issue of the European computer portal. New Zealand, for whom I have appointed myself spokesperson, is currently working on just such a system and wonders whether our contribution to this system will be medicine-centred or disease-centred and, in the latter case, whether the answers provided will revolve around medicinal therapy or whether other, replacement therapies will be proposed on these sites. –  Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Lisi, we are all mindful of the recent industrial disasters which have cast a shadow over Europe. These accidents have taken place in spite of the legislation currently in force. We must, therefore, have even stronger requirements and do as much as possible to prevent accidents by concentrating our action on three areas as a matter of priority. First of all there are the products themselves, then there are the sites, their structure and their geographical location, and finally there are the people, and that means all the employees themselves and also the people living or working close to industrial sites. As far as the products are concerned – and this has already been mentioned – the Commission has revised the list and the thresholds in order to take into account not only the various accidents which have happened but also developments in scientific data. However, we believed that it was also necessary to amend the thresholds for ammonium nitrate so as to take into account the accident in Toulouse. As for the sites, legislation already makes provision for hazard studies. However, the competent authorities must also be able to request that these studies, which are carried out by the undertaking, be verified by a third party in cases where any doubt exists. As for the employees, efforts to improve training are needed, because training is the best method of preventing accidents. Such training must also be targeted at the employees of subcontractors working on site, since the number of subcontractors is increasing. It is essential to mobilise not only the employees within undertakings but also the people outside, because when there is an accident the people living close to industrial sites are also affected. It is therefore necessary to involve them in implementing external emergency plans, by allowing representatives of the local population to take part in consultative committees and also to inform the population as a whole about the risks and about what they should do if there is a problem. One of our objectives is to get citizens to become fully involved in ensuring their own safety. That does not mean simply making documents available. That is why information campaigns targeted at the people concerned must be carried out regularly. Measures to protect neighbouring populations must take into account the difficult coexistence between dangerous installations and residential areas. Amendments along these lines were adopted by the Committee on the Environment. The Group of the Greens and my group proposed two amendments requiring the executive committee to develop a methodology for defining safe distances with regard to future businesses and residential areas, but also to take into account other criteria in current evaluations. We believe that these proposals are essential, but if they are to be given their full potential they must also be accompanied by legal responsibility on the part of the authorities which are responsible for urban affairs. That is why our group tabled an amendment along these lines. Too many major accidents have continued to occur since the adoption of the first directive in 1976. It is now high time that this legislation was applied. We owe that to all the victims of accidents of this kind. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I join my fellow Members in congratulating Mrs Paulsen for the work she has done as well as her collaboration. The aim of this report, as previous speakers have said, is to draw up sanitary rules with a view to improving food safety. One of the fundamental aspects of this proposal is to ban re-use within the food chain of certain animal products, namely animal carcasses and downgraded animal by-products. However, the draft text submitted to Parliament at second reading – and I am referring to Article 4 here – indicates that all matter of animal origin collected during processing waste water in slaughterhouses and other premises must be classified as category 1, and this wording and change in the text gives us cause for concern. A provision of this kind would cause huge problems in terms of storage, collection and disposal, since the sludge from processing waste water during slaughter would no longer be able to be spread on land, but would have to be incinerated, which would add to the millions of tonnes of animal feed that we have to dispose of. The costs incurred by these new restrictions would force many slaughterhouses and cutting rooms throughout the European Union to close down their business that has become increasingly difficult in the wake of the various crises that we have experienced. I can only reaffirm that, at local level, the professional workers, employees, citizens and local authorities, if they failed to grasp the scientific justification of this text, would find it hard to understand that, after all their efforts (sanitary measures, tests, slaughtering herds), the European Union is asking them to make a further effort which goes beyond the financial limits that they are able to cope with. I therefore believe that it is essential that we provide clarification on this matter and that this specific treatment only applies to equipment with specific risks, thus ensuring increased food safety and feasibility for our industries and tradesmen. We must also step up our research programmes so that we have the most effective techniques possible for the processing of animals that are slaughtered and intended for human consumption and also pursue our other food safety policies to improve traceability, monitoring of imports from third countries and safe livestock feeding, as our priority must be to tackle the root of these problems. – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, this new report from the Court of Auditors which we have just received is of interest to the Committee on Budgetary Control because it makes a number of points concerning the problems of managing the Community budget, while at the same time warning us against the narrow interpretations that could be extracted from the crude exploitation of certain figures. But in addition to these, Mr President, we need more detailed explanations and analyses in order to progress. Let me quickly expand upon three points. First of all, there is a question of terminology: even though all too often no clear distinction is made between the notions of fraud and irregularity, the Court of Auditors warns us against the temptation to consider irregularities or errors as tantamount to cases of fraud. But it must be pointed out that the Court of Auditors itself says that cases of fraud are few in number. This report raises another point: the problems linked to VAT. VAT is an important component of the Community budget revenues. But it has to be recognised that we are faced with a complex system. Rates differ from one Member State to the next; their make-up also differs from one Member State to the next. For example, there is regional VAT in some Member States. We also still need to continue to question the implementing of fiscal harmonisation. The third point I would like to make concerns the debate which took place yesterday evening when the Court of Auditors’ presented its annual report to the Committee on Budgetary Control. The Court of Auditors was asked – and a number of speakers have reminded us of this morning – to explicitly name the Member States in which fraud and irregularities have been uncovered. I would warn us against the temptation to indulge in such practices. We are not looking for scapegoats, either in our institutions or in our Member States. What is more, as the working method applied by the Court of Auditors is based on sampling, we only have a partial view of the situation. The report from the Court of Auditors highlights, somewhat more so than in the past, the situation regarding the management and control of Community funds by the Member States. This analysis should lead us, as MEPs, and the Commission to put forward proposals to improve the management and financial control systems which the Member States must implement in order to protect the financial interests of the European Union. In conclusion, I would call for improved cooperation with the Council. –  Madam President, Members of the Commission and the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the media informed us this morning that another section of the Antarctic icecap had come adrift; this is where 90% of the earth's reserves of fresh water are stored. Floods and ecological catastrophes are becoming ever more frequent; desertification is gathering pace, and it is against this background, with time running out, that we will go to Johannesburg in September. Mr Papayannakis and Mr Lannoye have produced very good reports, and if they really were implemented soon, in spirit and letter, both in Europe and in other parts of the world, they would make it possible for us to look to the future with greater confidence. But these texts are our consciences talking, and sustainable development will remain an ideal for as long as we are unable to bring sufficient pressure to bear on the world's economic and financial systems. Ten years ago in Rio, we already identified commitments together, commitments which it has not been possible to keep. Today we see that liberal economic policies have widened the gaps between countries, making the rich even richer and the poor ever poorer. And all the while, we have been generating more and more wealth. The European Union has adopted some courageous positions and it now remains for us to put them into practice and add to them. It is this model that we will be taking to Johannesburg, in the hope that as many delegations as possible will draw inspiration from it. To succeed, however, we will need more than speeches and documents. We will need tools, and these tools are political, economic and financial. The political tools will require a new form of international governance, which must incorporate sustainable development policies. The financial tools obviously include more substantial aid from rich countries, but also taxation of financial transactions so as to give developing countries the resources to improve their social and democratic standards. Today we are being asked to consider the future development of our planet. We cannot afford to delay any longer in fulfilling the promise of a world which lives in greater solidarity, when the pressure on all our societies and the lack of prospects for large numbers of people are exacerbating their fears and causing them to seek refuge in isolationism. . – Unlike my political group, I have voted in favour of the amendments to block 3. I thought it was vital to support Amendment No 1, as it introduces a reference to the precautionary principle. Even though I understand the rapporteur’s desire to bring this legislative procedure to a close after the second reading (and I would like to draw attention to his hard work and great receptiveness of mind), I am unable to vote against the reference to the precautionary principle. I believe this principle to be essential and necessary for a debate as sensitive, and as far from a resolution, as the one on genetically modified organisms. The Council has refused to incorporate this reference to the precautionary principle fully into its Common Position, mentioning it in the preamble. That is the Council’s decision and I respect it. I do feel, however, that the European Parliament should not assume the Council’s old stance against the reference to the precautionary principle. The principle is, in any case, covered by Community legislation. To reject it accords GMO a privileged status. It sets a precedent which other occupational sectors might exploit in order to challenge future political proposals and guidelines. It is a retreat via the negation of a principle, but it masquerades as progress all the same. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, representatives of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank my colleagues and the secretariat of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and also the staff of the appropriate Directorate-General, for their excellent cooperation. As the Commissioner has just explained, the European Parliament is being asked to vote on the second amendment to the ‘sweeteners’ directive since its adoption in 1994. The Directorate-General responsible is therefore proposing that two new sweeteners, namely sucralose and salt of aspartame-acesulfame, should be added to the positive list of sweeteners already approved in the European Union. This proposal follows the favourable opinion on these two sweeteners issued in the year 2000 by the Scientific Committee for Food. As part of this second revision of the sweeteners directive, the European Commission has also proposed that the use of a third sweetener be revised, namely cyclamic acid. Following a re-evaluation of this sweetener by the Scientific Committee, the Commission proposes that the cyclamate thresholds contained in certain foods and drinks should be reduced. Studies, in particular those carried out in Denmark, have shown that a child weighing fifteen kilos or less might very rapidly reach the threshold of the acceptable daily intake (ADI), which could involve a risk to that child’s health. New studies being carried out in several Member States would seem to confirm this opinion. Finally, the last amendment proposed for this directive by DG Health and Consumer Protection is concerned with the committee procedure. The Commission, as you have just reminded us, wants to be given the power to decide whether a substance falls within the ‘sweeteners’ category, without going through the process of approval by the European Parliament. On this point, the vote in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy showed a very clear refusal to transfer that power to the Commission alone. Even though Members of the European Parliament are aware of the technical nature of this type of decision, your rapporteur believes that the European Parliament’s prerogative should be retained, since scientific expertise may be subject to controversy. Moreover, this amendment will be proposed again when the framework directive covering sweeteners is revised. Your rapporteur would prefer to wait for this more general revision. In any case, the absence of amendments on this point would seem to indicate that Members of the European Parliament would also prefer to put it off until the forthcoming general legislative revision. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy voted in favour of the request for the authorisation of the placing on the market of the two new sweeteners, but it also voted in favour of the adoption of an amendment requiring a re-evaluation of these two substances three years after the entry into force of the revised directive. Your rapporteur is aware of the provisions of the directive, particularly as regards the monitoring system, but I would prefer to remind the European Commission and the Member States of their obligations regarding the monitoring of sweeteners and the collection of data. The collection of information on real consumption in the European Union and on the possible effects of the consumption of sweeteners on human health must be organised as soon as the products containing those sweeteners are placed on the market, so as to enable a re-evaluation of existing information to be carried out within the time limits laid down. It has to be admitted, however, that Member States are not doing enough to collect this information, and the European Commission does not always have the means to ensure that Member States observe the provisions contained in the directive, particularly with regard to reporting to the Commission. Your rapporteur is well aware of the gap which exists between the adoption of legislation and its implementation, and I believe that the work of Parliament also includes reminding those responsible of the need to apply the law. As far as cyclamates are concerned, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy voted in favour of adopting a stronger position than the one recommended by DG Health and Consumer Protection. In effect, the committee is proposing to reduce cyclamate levels to 250 mg and to extend this provision to cover all drinks. This extension is necessary because drinks containing cyclamates may easily be served to small children, owing to the very nature of those drinks. Moreover, this greater reduction is also necessary because it takes more account of the switch from a temporary ADI to a lower permanent ADI adopted by the Scientific Committee. On this basis, your rapporteur supports Amendment No 9, tabled by Mrs Schörling. Before I finish, I should like to mention the issue of fine bakery products. Two amendments have been proposed. I shall not attempt to conceal my preference for the one that I and my political group have proposed, because it is the result of collective work and because I believe that consumers ought to know what ingredients or products the foods that are sold to them contain. However, I am also prepared to accept Amendment No 12, with an oral amendment which will be proposed tomorrow. It enables us to find a solution as far as this category of foods is concerned, and I believe that these two amendments propose an acceptable solution. I hope, therefore, that Members will vote in such a way as to enable us to propose a solution on this point to the Council. Having spoken about the technical aspects of my report, I shall now conclude my presentation of that report by referring, in broader terms, to the question of consumer protection, which in this case is linked to public-health issues. I am well aware, of course, that sweeteners can bring some comfort to people whose state of health requires them to follow a special diet. However, the existence of products containing such sweeteners must not be allowed to hide the very serious public-health problem of obesity. This public-health issue is of course linked to that of eating habits, and of nutritional and health education. It is also linked, therefore, to new kinds of consumption and to the presence on the market of increasingly sweetened products, consumed in excessive quantities by children, which are often the subject of false advertising. This is why I am anxious to draw the Commission’s attention to this problem once again, although I know that Mr Byrne has already confirmed that he is very much aware of it. Before other speakers take the floor, I just want to say that I very much hope that we shall reach an agreement with the Council at second reading, and I hope that tomorrow’s vote will enable us to do this. . –  I am sorry that, on a subject which is so important for the future of European citizens, we have to be content with a resolution procedure. A Commissioner should only speak on behalf of the European Union after having negotiated their mandate with the elected representatives. The Constitution should take account of this democratic deficit if it is to succeed in bringing Europe closer to its citizens. As the amendments proposing a new political direction for the text have been rejected, I am voting against the resolution. Public services should not be part of negotiations. A moratorium suspending any new agreement would allow for a genuine impact assessment with regard to the other market services. Some claim that the developing countries have asked for these agreements. They have no choice but to privatise their public services, as the level of their debt prevents them from receiving any loans intended for the development of public services, in particular, water. The WTO should no longer be the Trojan horse of a form of liberalism that has proved its limitations and its inability to improve the quality of life of the majority of the world’s citizens. Trade at international level is essential, but it must be conditional on adoption of and compliance with environmental and social rules. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, the statements made by some of my fellow Members have already contributed significantly towards expressing the discontent aroused by the report on discharge. I should like to address you in the same vein. Mrs Stauner’s initial report on discharge for the year 1998 gave rise to a great many questions and criticisms, which were expressed, in particular, in the vote in favour of an amendment noting the discrepancies between the compromise resolution and the explanatory statement. In drawing up her second report, the rapporteur apparently did not take account of her fellow members’ general lack of satisfaction. Once again, we must deplore Mrs Stauner’s method. She kept on asking the Commission for more and more information, going beyond the recommendations made in the resolution adopted on 13 April. Today she is still asking questions which have already been explicitly answered. This attitude has led the majority of members of the Committee on Budgetary Control to make radical changes to the draft report. This is the reason why the text on which we are to vote during this part-session is substantially different from the initial draft. This text does now afford us a more comprehensive overview of the Commission’s implementation of the 1998 budget, but at the price of a political conflict dominated by a feeling of frustration. We can only deplore the far from constructive attitude of the rapporteur both within the parliamentary committee and with regard to the European Commission. We cannot fail to note the same petty political excesses that some of us already condemned in the initial report on discharge for the year 1998. Our objective must be to work in close collaboration with the Commission in the interest of our fellow citizens and of the implementation of our policies, and to make the discharge report a proper assessment of the implementation of the European Union budget in both quantitative and qualitative terms. Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, according to a recent poll conducted by Eurobarometer, over 70% of Europeans do not want to eat GMOs. There was, therefore, a need to provide European consumers with a response, by adopting legislation on labelling, which should enable everyone to choose what they eat. I do, however, have several reservations. The first concerns the 0.9% threshold. Why, when a lower presence is technically detectable – with a threshold of 0.5% being accepted for non-authorised GMOs – are we refusing to be less demanding? The situation would be different if a 0.9% presence becomes a reality before the moratorium is even lifted. My second reservation concerns consumer choice. Will this choice be guaranteed in future, when we do not envisage any binding legislation on the subject of coexistence and instead leave it to Member States to adopt appropriate measures? Perhaps we already know that coexistence is impossible, that we can regulate neither the flight of the bumblebees nor the direction or strength of the wind and that planting GMOs is irreversible? If this is the case, we are taking a considerable risk for Europeans, because we cannot make the issue of GMOs solely one of consumer choice, turning a blind eye to public health and environmental problems. Lastly, no one has to date been able to produce powerful, irrefutable and convincing arguments that prove the benefit and the harmless nature of GMOs. GMO crops and biotechnologies are too frequently lumped together, but GMOs are only one of biotechnology’s many applications. Refusing to extend the use of GMOs in Europe does not mean that we are against progress, or against gene therapies; it simply means that we are choosing the precautionary principle over the trial and error of the sorcerer’s apprentice. Everyone is well aware that what still counts the most in this field is economic and financial interests and that the EU’s agricultural and environmental future will be shaped by pressure from the United States and from WTO negotiations. This is most regrettable, because it should not be forgotten that the United States has still not ratified the Cartagena protocol. I have the feeling that all of these debates and our votes tomorrow are preparing us for agreeing to raise the moratorium without too much argument. Our vote will, therefore, be much more political than it appears to be and we would be failing the citizens if we did not demand, before any decision is taken, to be better informed about the real risks that GMO crops will entail for the environment and for people’s health. –  Mr President, I shall comment on certain problems raised by Mr Dell’Alba’s report to which I should like to draw your attention. The measures to assist young farmers setting up in business are inadequate, since in far too many cases the target group exceeds the age limit on the date of receiving aid even though it was eligible at the moment of presenting an application. Given the difficult situations experienced by a large number of these young people and the hardship faced by people working in that sector, a situation where some of them cannot receive European and national aid due to inaccuracies and delays is not acceptable. As regards the measures to assist the employment of young persons, we would need a precise assessment before being able to consider the impact of this policy. This assessment should take account of the variety of routes to employment to be implemented. As regards the measures for the redevelopment of industrial sites, on the contrary, the funding has been too generous, since the ERDF aid has been used to fund projects of types other than the development of industrial sites. This is compounded by the fact that different forms of aid, if not coordinated at regional level, can engender competition between promoters and a subsequent scattering of aid and reduced effectiveness. This does not make it possible to conduct a redevelopment policy which takes account of the diagnosis of needs and the assessment of achievements, ultimately enabling the active administration of regional development. In this respect, I cannot go without mentioning the restructuring planned by the Danone Group, a procedure we find in various Member States. We cannot tolerate firms which have been able to receive European subsidies being allowed, even though they are in good financial shape, to decide, for reasons of structural adjustments, to lay off thousands of people and causing as many family crises which, once again, will be a drain on national and European public monies. In conclusion, one of the major objectives of the European Union is to combat unemployment, which is a priority of the Member States but also of the Commission. We know how difficult it is to reach the whole of a target group with any measure. However, in view of the inaccuracies and shortcomings that have been observed, demands have been presented to have the necessary arrangements made immediately, in particular in order to better define the measures and to actually pass the benefit on to the recipients by curtailing delays in the handling of cases and the payment of beneficiaries, in order to ensure that the results achieved are... –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together today having completed several months of work, hearings, visits on the ground, meetings with experts, farmers, with men and women, in fact, with all those who have had first-hand experience of the foot and mouth crisis, who have been deeply affected by it and, who above all, never want it to happen again. This was very much the aim of our work: understand what happened, analyse events from every angle – economic, social and psychological – in order to learn lessons from this and minimise the risks and the effects of this type of disease in the future. Some would have liked the main aim of the temporary committee’s work to be to seek out the guilty party or parties, which is an understandable reaction when one is desperate and appalled by what one is going through. This, however, was not the specific aim of our committee or the reason why it had been set up. Can we accept the fact that, in a report that is intended to be the product of the most objective investigation possible, there are some very subjective elements and some irrational guesswork? I think not. The very credibility of our work as parliamentarians depends on this and that is why our group tabled a number of amendments designed to restore balance to the report. Apart from a few petty political digressions, we must acknowledge that our work has been very rewarding and worthwhile, the large number of direct contacts enabling us to gain a better understanding of the problems of managing the crisis and its countless consequences. We must point out that the epidemic was a traumatic experience for tens of thousands of people, particularly because the memories that we may have of foot and mouth disease are of an epidemic which is undeniably serious, but not to the point of destroying entire regions and leading to the slaughter of millions of animals that individuals had put so much effort into feeding and caring. Having succumbed to new rearing methods and more movement of animals, we were unable to cope with this crisis and respond as we did 50 years ago when we isolated infected herds, since the number of infections was already too great by the time the epidemic was identified. Of course, with hindsight, we can always say ‘We should have done this or that’, but we must not forget that, at the time, we were facing a crisis and that solutions had to be found urgently in tandem with institutions, local communities and populations who were unprepared for this type of situation. Even experts believe that this crisis would have been of the same tragic proportions had it broken out in any other European country. The unfortunate experience of the United Kingdom has enabled other Member States to be more vigilant and better prepared to deal with the disease. What do we do now? What decisions must the European Union take? The rapporteur, several of my fellow Members and the Commissioner have just explained. First of all, prevention is essential, and this prevention involves providing better information, on-going training of farmers – who were not always able to identify the disease early enough – animal traceability and more animal health professionals who can be called up more easily. Vigilance within Europe’s borders is essential, but we must also increase our controls on imports, both at land borders and at ports and airports. We are at the heart of global trade and people are travelling more and more, and so we must take into account this international dimension. We must also provide solutions in a crisis by anticipating responses with more appropriate emergency plans, by encouraging emergency vaccinations wherever possible, whilst remembering that slaughter is the only possible outcome when livestock has been infected. The final comment I would add is that research is an area which we are entitled to expect to provide us with some results, on the condition that we provide it with the resources. To sum up, I would like to reiterate, in the wake of the maritime disasters which have struck Europe once again, that our reports, whilst full of good intentions, are not worth a great deal if the European Union and the Member States do not shoulder their full responsibilities by swiftly implementing the recommendations that we make in this Chamber. We now await the report on which the Commission is currently working and hope that it will support the conclusions of our temporary committee. Lastly, I would like to thank and to congratulate the rapporteur, the chairman, and all the Members who contributed to the report, as well as the committee and all the staff involved in this work. . – Unlike the rest of my group, I have decided to abstain from voting on this report. The main reason for this stems from the decision to raise the honourable Members’ salaries by a considerable amount. In the current social and political climate, not just in France but throughout Europe, this decision is unacceptable and unjustifiable. We are, first and foremost, representatives of the people. As such, our priorities are to promote the interests of our citizens and give concrete form to their expectations in Europe, especially in terms of increased democracy. I have decided to abstain rather than vote against the report because I believe that adopting a single statute for Members is a positive step towards a more united Europe, towards a truly shared destiny, and towards achieving equality for all. I would, however, have preferred to see the goal of equal pay, which this report attempts to impose from the top down, become a priority for European legislators through the adoption of a minimum European wage. It would thus affect our fellow citizens first and foremost. –  Mr President, Commissioner, representatives of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we now have to decide on the report by Mr Nisticò, an important report because, as has just been mentioned, it aims to prohibit the marketing of substances newly classified as carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction. It also constitutes – and I would emphasise this – the twenty-third amendment to the directive. We must of course welcome the European Union’s decision on this question, and also welcome the fact that it regularly comes up for discussion, as our knowledge of the subject grows. The examples quoted by Mr Lisi are a good illustration of the need to prohibit these hazardous substances. During the conciliation procedure, however, the Council was unwilling to approve the proposal to extend the subject matter of the text to include products, so as to avoid legislation which in its view would be too complex and which would run the risk of being impossible to apply. Admittedly the argument that these substances are present in 30 000 products and it would be difficult to carry out assessments of such a large number of products makes good sense. However, surely we could ask, here and now, that such assessments should be carried out on new products placed on the market which contain the substances in question? Moreover, the Commission has undertaken, following agreement between Parliament and the Council, to submit a legislative proposal aimed at prohibiting the use of products containing CMR substances when it is scientifically proven that exposing the public at large to such substances involves risks. It is desirable that this proposal, which is in line with what we want to happen, is put into practical terms as soon as possible. As for the method of working, I would remind the House that, whereas this report concerns the twenty-third amendment to the directive seeking to prohibit the marketing of CMR substances, the Committee on the Environment is already looking at the twenty-fifth amendment to that directive. Of course the twenty-fifth amendment is concerned with other substances and preparations, but would it not be better to coordinate the adoption of the various texts, particularly when they are concerned with products that are hazardous to human beings and to the environment? CMR substances, chemical products and pesticides should be examined from the same angle, namely that of safety and the risks that they represent to human beings and to the environment. There is also another question which we shall have to take increasingly into account from now on, and that is the question of risk and the burden of proof. A company which places a product on the market has to assure consumers that the product is not harmful. It is not the task of the consumers to demonstrate that the product is hazardous. A product should not have to be banned after it has been placed on the market because the product has actually shown itself to be harmful: it should be banned before it is even placed on the market. –  Mr President, representatives of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the discharge procedure is a complicated exercise. We have to assess a budget two years after it has been implemented by the Commission, while taking into consideration the budget which is currently being framed, the improvements needed for the implementation of the budget and the practical realisation of the political goals of the European Union. This already complex situation is further complicated by the peculiar situation we have found ourselves in for almost a year now, to wit, the discrediting of the European Union to a certain extent following the resignation of the Santer Commission last year; a new Commission, in which most of the Commissioners were not members of the Commission which was led to resign; a new Parliament, with many Members facing this discharge procedure for the first time; and reforms or proposed reforms directly concerning European Union finances. I am thinking of the Structural Funds for the things already achieved, and the Financial Regulation for the things already achieved. This is the context in which we received Mrs Stauner’s report, a report which, unfortunately, makes only a limited assessment of the Commission’s implementation of the budget for the financial year 1998 against the yardstick of the political goals which the European Union set itself. If it is unthinkable and intolerable for public money to be used for irregularities and fraud, and if we must both dismantle the mechanisms enabling such abuses to take place and denounce the people involved, then we can also question the methods used to draw up this report. This report was unacceptable in its initial form because it did not give us the material to form an opinion as to whether or not the budget for 1998 was correctly implemented by the Commission. It has been possible to adopt a compromise, but the fact remains that we find the explanatory statement unsatisfactory, as it does not reflect the new direction of the report, and portrays relations between our institutions as frozen in an attitude of defiance, at a time when we and our fellow citizens are hoping that productive cooperation in the interests of improved cohesion between our States will develop. The content and the arguments presented in other more specific reports provide no more justification for postponement of discharge. Let me refer, by way of example, to Mr Khanbhai’s report, which revealed some problems in the ECSC accounts, including, among other things, the solvency ratio and the transfer of property, although the Commission and the High Authority are currently reducing these problems with a view to the expiry of the ECSC Treaty in 2002. In this specific situation, it would seem that the current discharge procedure would be a perilous exercise. Should this not require giving a more precise framework to the work of Members of Parliament within the Committee on Budgetary Control? I shall conclude by mentioning the internal reform of the Commission. Among other objectives, the Commission has set itself the task of improving financial control by various means: new structures, responsibilities of authorising officers, and financial controllers within each directorate-general. We must be attentive to ensuring that this reform makes it possible to achieve the set objective and that it requires the various financial operators within the directorates-general to assume real responsibility. It also seems essential that, in combination with the determination to reduce irregularity and fraud effectively, the reform should be able to look into the implementation of our policies within Member States, where one of the problems arising concerns payment deadlines and the inadequacy of some payment appropriations. –  I abstained from the vote on this report for two reasons. The main reason is that the regulation on the statute and financing of European political parties authorises gifts from legal persons to European political parties. I cannot accept such a proposal because it would make it impossible for the parties to be independent of business circles. The influence of the business lobbies on parties and political orientations is already considerable, and direct financing, even with a ceiling attached to it, would increase even further their influence on political parties. Besides, there is no guarantee that the financing of the national political parties by the European political parties will be kept separate, because of the authorisation of cross-border measures. Finally, it is no longer a question of European political parties, but rather of political parties at European level. I decided to abstain, rather than vote against this report, because I believe that the adoption of such a statute is a strong and positive signal of a move towards a closer Union and towards a destiny that is truly shared. The European political parties, funded by public subsidies and by contributions from activists, are one of the means offered to our citizens of bringing about this increasingly close Union of our peoples. . –  I have voted in favour of the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, for they clearly improve the Council common position and provide powerful guarantees in the fields of traceability and labelling, aimed as they are at preserving the consumer’s freedom to choose between GMO and non-GMO products. Contrary to my political group’s decision and to that of the majority of the European Parliament, I have voted against compromise Amendments Nos 44 and 45, concluded with the Council. These leave it to the discretion of the Member States whether or not to adopt measures regarding the co-existence of GMO and non-GMO crops. Now, because of the rejection of Amendment No 40 to the Scheele report, Member States are forbidden to restrict or prohibit, valid though their reasons for doing so may be, the use of genetically modified foodstuffs presenting a risk to human or animal health or to the environment, as well as being forbidden to suspend or restrict their import. Where is the guarantee of the consumer’s freedom of choice? It turns out that the only purpose of this legislation is to enable the European moratorium on GMOs to be lifted as quickly as possible. A very large majority of the European Parliament, as well as the European Council, have just adopted some ineffectual legislation and will impose GMOs upon Europeans against their will. I want to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Haarder, on the quality of his report on respect for human rights in the European Union. I support the general philosophy underlying the document, which aims to consolidate European policy with regard to civil and political rights, but also to the economic, social and cultural rights of EU residents. Yet I would also like to draw my colleagues’ attention to two requests made in the report, which I find problematic. Paragraph 19 of the report, concerning the protection of national minorities, and paragraph 20, calling for the ratification of the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages, pose real problems. We certainly understand the spirit of the rapporteur’s observations on the need to protect national minorities: it sends out a strong message to some of the candidate countries, especially the Eastern European ones, whose nationals do not all enjoy fundamental rights. Parliament firmly rejects abuses of fundamental freedoms throughout Europe, as the Haarder report emphasises. But we regret that it alludes to the rights of ‘national minorities’, an expression that is far more restrictive than the universal concept of ‘human rights’. Furthermore, we support the idea of an indivisible political community, within which ethnic origin is not eclipsed but regarded as being of secondary importance. The Republic cannot recognise  ‘minorities’ or ‘communities’: in its view there are only autonomous and free citizens with equal rights. In view of our convictions we must also express strong reservations about paragraph 20 of the report, which refers to the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages. Everyone is free to use one or several languages of his or her choice in addition to the language of the Republic and everyone has the right to learn them at school.. The Charter is too vague in this respect, which entails the risk of encouraging the formation of regional communities; that would pose a threat to the unity of the Republic but also, in the long run, to the cohesion of the Union. I will, nevertheless, vote for Mr Haarder’s report because of its quality and its underlying philosophy. .We have said ‘no’ to the treaties of accession presented to Parliament for assent. This is because we actually wish enlargement to succeed and because we are committed federalists. Enlargement is in danger of becoming a dog’s dinner as a number of preliminary conditions have not been met. Some of these are detailed below. Turning first to institutional conditions, clearly the Convention will not lead to a major overhaul of the institutions. It will therefore not enable them to become more democratic and comprehensible. It will not allow for secularism to be declared a fundamental principle of the Union either. Moving on to social conditions, so far there is no provision for a social treaty to accompany the draft constitution for Europe. Such a treaty would contain guarantees to help deal with the danger of business relocation together with assurances regarding public services. Further, the agreement cobbled together at the eleventh hour violated the rights of the European Parliament. It sets enlargement in an unrealistic financial framework that discriminates against the accession countries. It threatens the success of the whole enterprise, notably that of the CAP. Readjustment of the CAP to focus on rural development is also at risk. The candidate countries are set to join an integrated system that is merely a market. This is not how the European socialists conceive of Europe. –  Mr President, Commissioner, representatives of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, according to its title, this report claims to deal with safety and quality standards for human tissues and cells. However, we are well aware that such a text could not fail to mention ethical principles, and that is why a large part of the debate has centred on those issues. Keen as we are on the concept of voluntary, anonymous and non-remunerated donation, we would have liked to see a firmer stand taken on this subject, and we had already expressed this desire when we had the vote on the report on blood, and had occasion to reaffirm it when we examined the report on organs. We therefore regret that the objectives of voluntary, anonymous and non-remunerated donation are the subject of mere recommendations, rather than clear commitments, since the absence of any timetable for achieving these objectives means that Member States are not obliged to take all necessary steps to implement projects and policies towards achieving those objectives. We deplore this and we therefore ask the Commission to carry out a regular evaluation of the progress made in this area at Member State level. We must not ignore the fact that the safety and traceability of donations will be better guaranteed if those donations originate from a country within the European Union which is subject to our legislation. Another of our objectives should be self-sufficiency at EU level. Moreover, trafficking linked to trade in cells and tissues in certain third countries should make us extremely vigilant when we import such products, because if we are not vigilant we might be regarded as passive accomplices in such activities. In addition, the European Union’s Charter of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms states that it is prohibited to make the human body, and parts thereof, a source of profit. This is why we should vote in favour of Amendment No 77 and Amendment No 1. With regard to donor anonymity in the case of gametes, and the proposal which has been made, to the effect that such anonymity should be removed, I wonder whether, if this happened, there might be a risk that donors of sperm and oocytes, of which even now there are not enough to satisfy demand, would be put off from entering into such a commitment. Finally, it seems to me important that the Member States and the Commission should establish a centralised data bank which would receive all available information on approved establishments, on the products handled, and on bio-monitoring. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this report was to propose a text describing the effects of water pricing on consumption. Some Members, however, found the temptation to include proposals on the prospects for privatisation in this sector too strong to resist. To my mind, privatisation is often the first step towards liberalisation. Some of us in this House support the idea that water must not become a commodity like any other and must instead be given special consideration and above all remain the property of everyone, in present and future generations. Public authorities must remain in control of the distribution and treatment of water, even if we accept the idea of delegating services to private companies for set periods and under precisely defined conditions. Above all, if we wish to involve Europe’s citizens in these issues and to ensure that our policy does not simply result in higher bills, let us work on informing and communicating with the public on this crucial matter. We must win over as many people as possible to our concerns if we are to directly encourage individuals to reduce their water consumption. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank Mr Lisi most sincerely for the work he has accomplished. As has just been said, tomorrow Parliament will have to vote on this report’s second reading and, as with other reports, we here are of course divided between the wish to take negotiations with the Council and Commission as far as possible and the desire to get this text finalised quickly so it can be implemented as soon as possible. At the end of the first reading, the Council incorporated a large number of amendments adopted by Members, but also rejected several proposals. A few weeks ago, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy adopted by a very large majority a text which confirms the requirements to which we will have to submit if we want to make progress on prevention. On these questions, the European Union must show its unity and its willingness to improve the legislation in force in answer to the legitimate concerns of the European citizens. It is also an opportunity for us to give some meaning to this European construction which is often accused of devoting more time to drawing up product standards than to the Europeans’ well-being, let alone their health. I am therefore glad that the Committee on the Environment has adopted the amendments concerning obligations to notify the competent authorities, because we need to be very demanding in this area without, Commissioner, being bureaucratic: there is no reason why we cannot simplify the documents. The amendments concerning training for all staff, including staff of subcontractors, seem to me to be essential, because it has been evident from several accidents that a lack of training and of information was involved. On the question of safety distances between establishments and sensitive areas, the terrible accident in Toulouse showed the weaknesses in the relevant legislation and we must include these things in our report, just as we must in future extend the mapping of sensitive areas. One point presents a problem and seems to be meeting with stiff opposition from the Council and the Commission, as you have just said, Commissioner; it is the question of extending the scope to all mining and waste processing activities using dangerous substances. The Council and the Commission want to restrict the scope of the Seveso II Directive to the chemical and thermal processing of waste only; they justify this position by the fact that in its proposal concerning mining waste the Commission refers, in Article 6 on the prevention of major accidents, to the provisions of the amended Seveso II Directive. However, if we want to avoid a legal void concerning certain mining activities and certain methods of processing mining waste until this new legislative proposal is adopted, the European Parliament must vote in favour of Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 13 without prejudice to the scope of the future report and with no talk of redundancies. I would therefore like Parliament to adopt the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, thus strengthening on-site prevention and the safety of European citizens. Like the Council, we want to reach an agreement in this stage of the legislative procedure but, I hope you understand, not at any price. . – I voted against the motion for a resolution on services of general interest since the voting trends of the majority of MEPs do not give an objective picture of the consequences of the liberalisation undertaken to date. Furthermore, they pave the way for the liberalisation of other sectors. Today, as we have already asked in the past, we must hold a serious, pluralist and open assessment of liberalisation policy and make the conclusions public. We must re-examine the liberalisation that has taken place, in order to make the adoption of a framework directive as effective as possible. Furthermore, it is high time we definitively excluded some sectors from the prevailing competition policy at Community level. This applies particularly to health, education and social services, including social housing. Finally, we must guarantee the subsidiarity under which local or territorial powers are exercised. This motion does not establish European services of general interest as an added value of the European structure but as a means of achieving the EU’s territorial, economic, ecological and social cohesion goals. Services of general interest are an essential element of our social model, which we must defend and promote. Our economic system has shown its limitations. The financial sector is not in phase with the real economy and too often upsets it. Our high rates of unemployment, the marked increase in the gap between North and South and the increase in poverty on a worldwide scale are evidence of this sad reality. International capital movements are destabilising factors. That is why we must seek measures to tax transactions on the foreign exchange markets in order to reduce their volatility and to curb short-term speculative transactions. The fact that a tax such as that envisaged by James Tobin, the recipient of the Nobel Prize for Economics, would represent a tiny blip in the excessively well-oiled machinery of speculation and the considerable amounts of money that it could generate are valid arguments in favour of its implementation, especially when you realise that even by adopting a very low rate (about 0.05%), it would bring in almost FRF 600 billion per year, according to the most conservative estimates! In this context, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) proposes that this sum be paid back to the states where the tax would be collected and to a redistribution fund for the poorest countries. The wealth recovered in this way from the large international capitalists would be redirected to the people and could form a considerable lever to achieve development for the poorest countries. We would finally have arrived at a situation where solidarity took the place of selfishness.  For all these reasons I voted in favour of this resolution and I am very pleased that the House has now dealt with this subject, at the risk of annoying the unscrupulous speculators whose actions destabilise the most vulnerable economies, and sometimes even our whole system, as can be seen from the recent financial crises in south-east Asia. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when I was elected to the European Parliament, it was with a clear mandate, not only to represent Réunion, the island where I come from, or even the outermost regions, but also to try to make the voice of all of the French overseas territories heard. This is why I am glad that Parliament charged me with being its spokesperson on the statute of association between the overseas countries and territories, the OCTs, and the European Union. I would also like to commend the spirit of openness that prevailed when this report was being drawn up. Allow me first to venture a historical and political look at the relations that some Member States have had with their former colonies, relations that have been marked, in my opinion, by the bond of exclusivity and by supervision, which are pillars of the colonial pact. We should now break with the past and with the feeling of guilt that goes with it, in order to define a true responsible and equal partnership between the overseas countries and territories, the attached Member States and the European Union. This is the path that we should resolutely take, in order for this new decision of association to be the real qualitative leap expected by all of the overseas countries and territories. This challenge is, however, made difficult by the lack of homogeneity among the OCTs and by the structural handicaps that are physically curbing their development: about twenty countries linked with four Member States – The United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Denmark and France –, mostly small and island countries, with the notable exception of Greenland, very remote from the European continent, characterised by an extreme economic and social diversity (the richest are within the Community average, while the poorest are really under-developed), and also by diversity of status in terms of the relations that the overseas countries and territories have forged during their history with their mainland, relations characterised by considerable independence for some and major State supervision for others. It has to be said that the Commission’s proposal, as it has been put forward, only partly responds to this challenge and to the legitimate aspirations of these territories found in all four corners of the globe. There are still acute questions in terms of the institutional, economic, financial and commercial problems. First of all from an institutional point of view, I would like to welcome the establishment of a forum to facilitate partnership between the OCTs, the Member States and the Commission, although it is regrettable that decision making is not more in the hands of the leaders of the overseas countries and territories. Next, from an economic and financial point of view, the Commission has indeed retained a differentiated strategy, taking into account the extreme diversity among the overseas countries and territories, but I deplore the fact that the amount of aid is essentially fixed based on GNP per inhabitant. I think it would have been more appropriate to add demographic and social criteria to this, which are a fairer reflection of the vulnerability of these territories. I will take this opportunity to call again for the creation of a specific development fund for the overseas countries and territories, separate from the European development fund, which I am convinced would be more in keeping with the spirit and the letter of the association. Finally, from a commercial point of view, I must stress here that the share of overseas countries and territories in trade with the Community is very low, which makes it difficult to understand the Commission’s defensive position. It is true that it is essential that in certain cases, such as that of sugar, it should be extremely vigilant in order to prevent the original rules, which are necessary for the development of all of the overseas countries and territories, from being abused, with the effect of destabilising some European markets, particularly in outermost regions. However, not only out of a concern for coherence, at a time when the Union is completely opening up its markets to the least advanced countries, but also in view of the common history of the OCTs and the European Union, we do not understand why it is refusing them what it is granting to the least advanced countries. Community solidarity cannot be two-speed. It is thus high time that we showed effectively that the overseas countries and territories are not the poor relations of our development policy. In other words, it is high time that we proved tangibly to these people that they are right in believing in the European Union. This is why, to finish, I wish to reiterate the desire that I state several times in my report, that the tenth anniversary of the statute of association should be an opportunity for reaffirming the strong political will towards these territories, that have for too long been left to be blown by the wind, across all the oceans of the world, in order to firmly and resolutely undertake the path of partnership and responsibility, in other words the path of development for all. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, can the European Union continue to ignore the expectations of society, which has been deeply affected by the food crises we have experienced in recent years? Is it right for 80% of agricultural aid to be distributed among only 20% of farmers? Can Europe seriously be exonerated from the need to carry out an in-depth analysis of a policy that accounts for almost half of its budget, at a time when it is preparing to welcome 10 new countries? You were right, Commissioner, to prefer movement to the status quo, anticipation to a waiting game. Your reform is courageous, for it advocates, through decoupling, a break with the approach of providing incentives for production. It is ambitious in that it seeks to strengthen the multifunctional nature of European agriculture. It is relevant in terms of the future WTO appointments and the impending enlargement of Europe. However, I am afraid that it may also be unfair in that it is based exclusively on the situation in mainland Europe and does not give sufficient consideration to the diversity of regional situations, particularly as regards production in the outermost regions. These regions have not yet achieved the initial objective of the CAP, namely a degree of agricultural self-sufficiency. Their markets are far from being saturated. They need incentives to help develop their farms. If the proposed measures were automatically applied to the outermost regions, they would be an undeniable hindrance to the dynamism we have witnessed in recent years. It is not a question of putting the outermost regions in a bubble; we simply need to take account of their specific situations. The legal basis already exists, in Article 299(2); what we need now is the political will. The Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has shouldered its responsibilities by adopting on 21 May an amendment, which I tabled with the aim of ensuring that the outermost regions are not subjected to automatic, systematic application of the reform. The Commission and the Council must now shoulder theirs. There is no doubt that we must learn from the lessons of the past and adapt our agricultural policy to the challenges of the twenty-first century, but it would be unacceptable to allow this reform, in the name of general principles, to sound the death knell for the Union’s most vulnerable farmers. –  Mr President, Commissioner, as my time is limited, I shall get straight to the point. Firstly, let me make a statement of fact: the fruits of growth are not distributed equitably within the Union. The most remote regions, still hard hit by catastrophic unemployment rates, offer one example of this. In Reunion, for example, the rate is 37%. This is not a situation related to the economic climate, however; rather it is a structural problem, created by our remoteness, our insularity, in short, our own specific personality.  The principle of specific, exceptional treatment was envisaged in Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam in order to deal with such cases. It only remains to put this principle into practice. The Commission document expected to be ready in December 1999 was delayed until January, then February, and the initial thinking does not fill me with much optimism. I therefore appeal formally to the Council and the Commission. As regards taxation, state aid, the Structural Funds and defending our traditional products, practical measures characterised by daring and ambition must be planned as a matter of urgency. If these do not materialise, then, unfortunately, convergence and cohesion will remain no more than words for us, and it is to be feared that the structural policy undertaken in our regions, despite the size of the amounts committed, will end in failure. –  In today’s sitting, the European Parliament adopted the General Budget of the European Union for the financial year 2000. The vote on the budget is a key point in the parliamentary calendar. Throughout the process of drawing up the budget, the Group of the Party of European Socialists forcefully defended the principles of Union solidarity and political commitment with regard to the most disadvantaged in order to meet the objective of eradicating poverty. As a member of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I paid particular attention to the development of Category 4, intended to finance the Union’s external policies and to promote development aid. Indeed, the Community’s historical and political responsibility towards developing countries must be fully taken up by this House and represents one of our absolute priorities. Despite the rationale of the general reduction of appropriations allocated to development aid, the European Community is, and must remain, the main partner of the most disadvantaged countries. In this respect, we cannot accept the Council proposal to implement a 10% reduction in the appropriations allocated for cooperation and development in order to finance the reconstruction of Kosovo and aid to Turkey following the earthquake, or support for East Timor. The cost of these displays of solidarity, all perfectly legitimate, must not be borne by the poorest countries on earth. Indeed, how could we sanction any reduction in the amounts allocated to the prevention of AIDS when it is known that 25 million people on the continent of Africa are already condemned to die from this scourge? Industrialised countries in general and the Member States of the Union in particular must not withdraw from their development aid commitment as that would have social, economic, political and health-related repercussions on the ever fragile equilibrium of the most disadvantaged countries. This is why, while being fully aware that the increase in Community spending is occasionally hard for the public finances of Member States to bear, I voted, in spite of everything, in favour of the resolution proposed by the general rapporteur for the budget. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years ago, when the SAARC was established, the South Asian countries and the European Union laid the foundations of an ambitious partnership of development and freedom of expression. The recent arrests of politicians in Pakistan are, unfortunately, a cruel statement of failure. These mass arrests of more than a thousand people are a good illustration of the determination of the regime of General Musharraf to quell the democratic aspirations of the Pakistani people and to prevent political parties from carrying out their legitimate activities. In 1999, a few months after the coup, in my capacity as Vice-Chairman of the South East Asia delegation, I met the ambassador of Pakistan, at his request, who ensured me that the military junta which had just snatched power from Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif would quickly prepare the ground for a democratic Pakistan. We are now, however, witnessing the intolerable radicalisation of this regime and the words ‘democracy’, ‘human rights’ and ‘political pluralism’ are being written in letters of blood in Pakistan. The inspiration born of democratisation – that we had longed to see – quickly gave way to intolerance and arbitrary arrests. The European Parliament cannot remain silent when faced with a situation which holds sway in a country with which the European Union has cooperated for so long. We owe it to ourselves to make it clear to General Musharraf that respect for human rights and democracy is what makes a policy of cooperation meaningful. We owe it to ourselves to ask him to organise free, pluralist and transparent elections as soon as possible, which the Supreme Court of Pakistan has also called for. –  Mr President, Commissioner, with its membership increasing from 15 to 25 countries, Europe is at a turning point and must face up to the challenge of its size. History commands us and we have commitments to do this. The fact remains, nonetheless, that there will be numerous question marks, when we realise that a Europe with 25 Member States will have 30% more inhabitants, 30% more territory, but only 10% more wealth. Along with enlargement, Europe is therefore in need of greater solidarity. But how are we going to manage to show more solidarity with the same amount of money? It is impossible. There is no use in continuing to bury our heads in the sand. Europe must decide to provide the necessary resources for the radical transformation that will bring about enlargement and must reformulate the criteria for granting structural aid so that the poorest populations are not adversely affected. We must therefore pay particular attention to the outermost regions, which are amongst the ten poorest regions of today’s Union. In this respect, I welcome the recent proposal by the Spanish Presidency to set up a permanent forum specifically for these regions. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe has chosen cohesion, and therefore solidarity, the price of which is the coherence of our common project. .  Europe is strongly divided over the debate currently taking place on the future of the common agricultural policy. Basically, on one side, there are the advocates of multifunctional farming, of which I am one, who find it unacceptable that 80% of Community aid should end up in the purses of 20% of the farmers, and, on the other side, there are the defenders of the status quo. In this respect, Mr Kanbhai’s report gives me the opportunity to put paid to a rumour which is all too often spread about and which I consider to be erroneous, namely that the European Union is closed to exports coming from the world’s poorest countries. The implication is that we are falling short of our duty of solidarity towards the developing countries by implementing a protectionist agricultural policy focusing solely on European farmers. Where does this rumour come from, considering that the European Union imports more agricultural products from developing countries than from the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand taken together? Lies, I suppose. Are we to infer from this that boosting trade and agricultural deregulation are the essential pillars of development policy? –  The current figures are proof of our resounding failure. Out of a worldwide population of 6 billion people, 1.5 billion have less than one dollar a day to live on. What is still more serious is that the global population is likely to increase by about 50% by the year 2020, and almost 90% of this increase will take place in developing countries. It is to be feared that the current situation will further deteriorate over the next few years. Yet, the European Union which, however, continually declares its solidarity with the poorest countries in the world and spends billions on helping them, has a severe lack of long-term vision for these countries. We must gradually free ourselves from this policy and instead consider development as a multifaceted issue, so that eliminating poverty is a reality rather than just a mythical objective. Development aid is not just due to a generosity tinged with paternalism. For several of our European countries that are, in fact, former colonial powers, development aid is a question of strong commitment, which we must certainly possess. If, however, this commitment is to be useful to the people concerned, we must rationalise our aid, reorganise our services and depend to a greater extent on local players, and I am thinking particularly of NGOs. It is these ideas which provided inspiration for the Committee on Development and Cooperation, and that is why I voted in favour of the report by Mr Gemelli. .  Since its inception, the European Union has sought to bring peoples closer together. Although it may be difficult to have the various sensitivities, histories and, sometimes, contradictions live side by side, enlargement must adhere to this concept of peace and take part in the creation of a community that transcends ancient geographical and ideological borders, guided by common values and rules. Nevertheless, in order to prevent Europe becoming nothing more than a free trade area, the European Union must provide clear answers to the institutional, social and economic questions that enlargement is bound to raise. We must, as of now, adopt a pragmatic approach to the implications of a Europe not of 15, but of 25 or 30. We must respond in an appropriate way to this enlargement which will considerably increase the number of poorer regions, and think carefully together about the risk of accentuating imbalances in Europe, in order to ensure that Europe does not become one huge heterogeneous mass. This is why we must show imagination in reformulating the criteria for granting structural aid, in order to guarantee appropriate support for the poorest regions of the candidate countries, as well as those in the current Member States. For this reason, I hope that the outermost regions, six out of seven of which always feature amongst the ten poorest in the EU, benefit from the Structural Funds, no longer just according to the sole criterion of GDP but also according to geographical, demographic and, especially, social indicators. Enlargement must not be financed by the poorest regions. This concept must guide institutional, economic and financial reforms throughout the accession process. Only on these terms will it be understood and accepted that the principle of solidarity, which aims to improve economic and social cohesion within the EU, will become a reality. Mr Brok’s report addresses the concerns I have just shared with you and, consequently, I voted in favour of it. – I would like to report my great satisfaction at having been able to participate in the great democratic event we have just experienced, which is unparalleled on the European political scene. The European institutions, particularly the European Commission and the European Parliament, emerge with increased statures from the hearings of the Commissioners-designate, and the European citizens who followed them (in the press) may find in them, I hope, good reasons to become more interested in the building of Europe. For these reasons, taking account of the generally acknowledged competence of the Commissioners and the intention expressed by the majority of them to work in close collaboration with Parliament, I voted in favour of the appointment of the European Commission. It was all the easier for me since the procedure selected for these hearings provided an opportunity to remind the Commission of its undertaking to present, by the end of 1999, a raft of proposals intended to finally give substance to Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam which establishes the specificity of the most remote regions, and their right to specific conditions of exemption, to enable them to deal with their structural problems. In addition, with regard to the OCT associated to the European Union, Commissioner Nielson acknowledged the need to present as quickly as possible a wide range of proposals intended to give these countries a status appropriate to their current situation, with a view to the forthcoming Association Agreement and, in particular, the consequent renewal of the financial instrument allocated to their development. On both these subjects, which I attach particular importance to, the proposals of the competent Commissioners seemed to me to augur well for the future collaboration between Commission and Parliament. . –  Ever since 1993, the issue of bananas has been at the heart of trade relations between the European Union and the United States. Some have even gone so far as to say that it has poisoned transatlantic relations and that this conflict should be resolved as quickly as possible. I would even venture to say that it should be resolved at any cost. Those in positions of power, like Louis Vuitton, Hermès and Gucci have had enough! So much so that people all over the world from the West Indies to Brussels and Strasbourg, some individuals have decided to fight back rather than capitulate. But who in Parliament can fail to recognise that by giving in to the diktat of the United States, in the guise of the WTO, the European Union is supporting future unemployment? At some point in the long term, 35 000 people in the Canary Islands will be made unemployed, and 30 000 in the West Indies. Who can fail to recognise that by progressively giving in on this issue, the European Union is disregarding its social model, which it is so keen to export throughout the world? Finally, who can fail to recognise that by giving in now on this issue, in the future we will inevitably have to give in on sugar, and not just on sugar cane but also on sugar beet? Soon we will have to write off our own agricultural model. Mr Dary has not avoided these various issues and I think that this Parliament should be proud of having voted in favour of his report today. Inspired by the strength of our democratic legitimacy, we have chosen the path of resistance, in the face of the intransigence of the European Commission. Our request for ‘cyclone’ licences to be available when crops are destroyed and, particularly, our demand for a transition period prior to the start of a purely tariff-based system in 2006 illustrate our opposition perfectly. This is why I naturally voted in favour of the report by Mr Dary. Overall, I felt it was pertinent to the issues involved, despite having some reservations, which, as I explained to the rapporteur, relate to the distribution within quota C between Caribbean and African producers. Given Africa’s trade links, in which France has been pivotal for historic reasons, I fear that this change will represent a further blow for the European producers of Guadeloupe and Martinique. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by expressing our sympathy for the Nepalese people, for whom the last few years have been one of the most difficult periods in their history. Nepal’s fledgling democracy is shaky and the rule of law is constantly giving way to the arbitrary and to violence. Over 3000 people have died in less than a year – which is appalling – following the violent confrontations between the army and the Maoist guerrillas, whose aim is to overthrow the monarchy, apparently against the wish of the population. In actual fact, this people has been subjected to a genuine civil war for over six years, and the reaction of the international community has been almost total indifference. The difficult situation has just been violently exacerbated by the events which took place at the beginning of this month. In announcing the dismissal of the Prime Minister and temporarily assuming the executive powers, something which has not happened since the end of the absolute monarchy in 1990, King Gyanendra has sparked off a major political crisis. Indeed, even though he subsequently appointed another Prime Minister, the new Prime Minister has no representative legitimacy and, indeed, the King must be sorely tempted to use the fight against Maoist guerrilla groups to suspend the rule of law and put an end to the period of parliamentary democracy which has prevailed for 12 years. These events have destabilised Nepal and thus exacerbated the unrest and instability throughout the region as a whole. The European Union can no longer be content just to express good intentions faced with such a situation. We must urge the new Prime Minister in the strongest terms possible to resume unconditional dialogue with the Maoist rebels. Moreover, it would be desirable, in this respect, for the Council to appoint a special representative for Nepal without delay, who would, if necessary, be able to serve as mediator between the two sides. Lastly and most importantly, given that this conflict is largely the result of economic and social problems, we must set aside a substantial amount of financial aid in order to be able to make an effective contribution to the restoration of peace and democracy in this small kingdom when the time comes. –  Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Sudre, we must bear in mind that the opportunity for us to debate here in this House today on the subject of the outermost regions is the result of a process of slow maturation. The fact is, even though, as early as the Treaty of Rome, reference was made to the French overseas departments, we had to wait until 1989 and the programme of options specific to the remote and insular nature of these regions, the notorious POSEI programmes, for the European Union to at long last acknowledge that the permanence and combination of structural handicaps affecting the outermost regions justified special treatment in comparison with the other regions of the Community. Eight years later, the Treaty of Amsterdam with its Article 299(2), the subject of our discussion today, gave rise to the hope that one day the terms ‘growth’ and ‘employment’ would mean the same thing throughout all European territory. So, it has been a long wait, and the hopes expressed by our peoples have built up throughout this long wait. I therefore feel entitled to confess that I felt rather disappointed when I read the Commission communication. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for stating good intentions is behind us, what we need is practical action and we need it now. We need a specific timetable, one that will be respected. We need real financial commitments, not, as we have in the 2001 budget, POSEI appropriations that, at the moment, have been cut by 25%. Most especially we need guarantees that this action will continue in the long term, because the handicaps of these regions, as listed in Article 299(2) – remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult climate – are not about to disappear. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has adopted a bold and ambitious stance on state aid, tax schemes and the implications of enlargement. I am pleased to see that the committee has adopted the bulk of the amendment I tabled. I should, moreover, like to pay tribute, at this point, to the rapporteur, Mrs Sudre, for her open-mindedness and her consultative approach, which made it possible, with everyone joining forces, to successfully complete a report which offers our regions real hope. Indeed I am convinced that the young people of our regions can actually glimpse a way out of the tragic unemployment which so drives them to despair, if we do manage to shift from a basically financial strategy, necessary, admittedly, but inadequate, to a more comprehensive strategy based on real recognition of our unique characteristics. Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the outermost regions are already the very emblem of the diversity, and hence the wealth of the European Union. Tomorrow they may become a laboratory providing the finest illustration of the effectiveness of the experiment of the European social model. We need audacity, intelligence and compassion. I have no doubt but that the proposals which the Commission will submit to the Council will be characterised by these qualities. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the outermost regions were fully acknowledged in Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam, we are still awaiting the first far-reaching measures. This is why I welcome today’s debate and the structural and agricultural packages proposed by the Commission, because they undeniably seek to take better account of the realities of the overseas territories. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs and particularly Mr Martínez Martínez and Mr Poignant on their excellent work. Overall, the Commission’s proposals can be considered as a step in the right direction and they are a satisfactory response to local needs. First of all, on the structural measures, we can only welcome the alignment of intervention levels to 85% for all outermost regions. In practice, this means that we are giving the same opportunities to people who have to deal with basically identical constraints. On the agricultural measures, since I am from Réunion, I welcome the measures to assist traditional farming and, in particular, transport aid for sugar cane, which our farmers have long been waiting for. I have a few comments, however, to make with regard to some of the points. First of all, I deplore the fact that the retroactivity of the measures has not been explicitly worded and I welcome the fact that many of Parliament’s amendments forcefully emphasise the importance of this point for all types of farming, as we must think of the thousands of farmers who are waiting for these measures. Next, I am sorry that the Commission did not automatically retain Article 299(2) as a legal basis, which, in my view, runs absolutely counter to the spirit advocated by the Heads of State and Government. I therefore welcome the fact that this omission was partially restored by the Council, because by limiting the scope of this article, we are undermining the very concept of what outermost regions are. Lastly, I would like to end with a wish. I would like the reforms that have been proposed here to lay solid foundations for an even more ambitious policy for our regions, so that equal opportunities and the acceptance of differences become a reality for all the citizens of the European Union. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years South Africa has made a historic leap forward by abolishing the apartheid system and establishing a new political order based on the rule of law, respect for human rights and democracy. If the people of South Africa have regained their freedom, this is, of course, for the most part thanks to their persistence and courage, as well as to that of their leaders, but also, it must be said, to the political and financial support provided by European Union Member States for the reform process in South Africa. Quite clearly, the cooperation agreement signed on 10 October 1994 was a strong message that we sent this people treated so badly by history. I must confess that the slow progress in Council negotiations for its renewal leaves me rather puzzled. Our duty to show this country legitimate solidarity must not and cannot be sacrificed on the altar of national trading interests. On the trade agreement, which, need I remind you, we endorsed by a large majority in this very Chamber last October, we must avoid disagreements which obstruct the adoption of this cooperation regulation. Such an attitude would be tantamount to appalling blackmail on the part of Europe and would not be true to the spirit behind the new development and cooperation agreements with the ACP countries, i.e. establishing contracts which respect the identity, culture and dignity of each partner. With regard to the regional cooperation aspect of this regulation, I should like, in turn, to draw the Council and the Commission’s attention to the risks of economic destabilisation which may be engendered by the regulation, and even more so by the trade agreement with South Africa. We shall have to be particular attentive to the effects that these agreements may have on the ever vulnerable balance within the Southern African Customs Union. I am also thinking of Namibia and Swaziland, and even Lesotho and Botswana, which are a long way from receiving the same amount of aid from Europe. I feel that the European Union must, as a matter of urgency, take steps to arrive at an agreement with the authorities of these countries in order to compensate for any losses. Finally, in conclusion, acknowledging our rapporteur for his clear-sightedness and for his talents as a negotiator, I should like to express my complete agreement with him on the need to remedy the existing legal vacuum to enable these agreements to come into force. We must put an end, as a matter of urgency, to these long months of hesitation and delay, seen as so many negative signs by South Africa’s fledgling democracy, which expects more from Europe than narrow calculations in order to safeguard limited interests. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express the satisfaction I have in noting that the most remote regions, including the French overseas departments, have received some attention in connection with the INTERREG III initiative, opening up new perspectives for their cooperation with other countries in their geographical area, even though it is true that more could have been expected, particularly with regard to access to the various strands. For a long time, probably a survival of our colonial heritage, our regions have fixed their attention on the European mainland, ignoring and even scorning their closest neighbours. That time is now past. Our regions have become aware of belonging to an environment that they are connected to, not only in geographical terms but also in terms of their culture and the history of their peoples, hence the intensely expressed aspiration to become more deeply rooted in this environment. This increased awareness does not, however, affect identity alone. It is fostered by a fair appraisal of our assets. So, for example, the island of Réunion is located on a trade axis between the countries of southern Africa and those of south-east Asia. It cannot afford to remain outside the regional alliances being forged in this area, lest it miss out on a historic opportunity, and the same applies to our regions in the Caribbean. At last we are convinced that our young people may start to see an end to the tragic unemployment, the source of so much despair, if we can export to neighbouring countries the know-how which we have gained thanks to the operation of the European structural funds. INTERREG appropriations may be used to make our regions into veritable European Union bridgeheads into these geographical areas, giving it worldwide scope. I am counting on the Commission, and specifically on you, Commissioner, to allocate adequate resources for effective action. .  The signature of the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of South Africa has just been approved by our House by a large majority. I can only rejoice at this Agreement, which I, naturally, voted in favour of. As a local representative, one of my first acts after being elected as Mayor of Saint-Benoît, in Réunion, was to name one of the city squares after Nelson Mandela. It was then 1983, and this purely symbolic act was intended as a fraternal gesture, a hand stretched across the Indian Ocean to the man then languishing in the jails of the apartheid regime. Today everyone can appreciate the distance we have come along the road. And this agreement, whose signature we are approving, comes at the opportune moment to definitively consolidate the process of democratic transition and economic and social stability undertaken some years ago now by the Republic of South Africa. It is in keeping with the tradition of solidarity of the European Union. By establishing a free trade area between two bodies at different stages of development, it even takes on a historic aspect. It also puts the finishing touches to the implementation of the strategy of the Union with regard to this country, a strategy defined, let us remember, under the French presidency. Finally, it is doubtless not without interest to note that the partnership thus cemented with this great nation of the south may contribute to the creation of synergy useful to the European Union within the framework of the delicate negotiations which are about to be opened within the WTO at the Seattle Conference in November. For all these reasons, we can only rejoice at the approval of this agreement. There is, however, one point to which I wish to draw the attention both of this Parliament and of the Council and the Commission: it is the influence which this liberalisation of trade, even over a ten year period, may have on the economic development of the outermost regions, specifically Réunion, a fully functioning European territory located in proximity to South Africa. I did indeed, of course, note the conditions given in Article 23(2) of the agreement, providing for the possibility of making use of supervision or safety measures in the event that the economic development of the “outermost regions of the European Union” should suffer serious damage. It seems important to me, nonetheless, firstly to have an in-depth study made as soon as possible in order to determine as precisely as possible the possible impact of this agreement on the economy of Réunion, and secondly to establish a permanent mechanism for supervision, establishing the conditions for quick intervention. Indeed, failure on our part to remain vigilant could have dramatic consequences for the society of Réunion, which is already seriously affected by unemployment (40% of the active population) and would be in total contradiction to the efforts of the European Union for many years, through the Structural Fund, to promote the economic and social development of the island. It is for these reasons that it seems important to me to draw the attention of this House to this essential aspect. –  I am pleased that the Treaty of Amsterdam accords the European Parliament the right to be more closely associated with the implementation of the European Employment Pact and that this House has, therefore, had the opportunity to express its opinion on the guidelines for Member States for the year 2000 on the subject of the fight against unemployment. Improving integration into employment, developing enterprise spirit, encouraging the capacity of firms and of workers to adapt, strengthening equal opportunities for women and men, these are the main pillars of this policy. In addition to these ambitious principles, we have asked the Council and the Commission to ensure that the guidelines become practical proposals necessitating implementation in the form of practical and effective measures within Member States. Indeed, while I am pleased to see the lowering of the unemployment rate on the European scale (9.4% of the working population in 1999 as against 10.1% in 1998), the actual gross figures must, in no way, obscure the human and social aspects of the economic situation which are extremely hard to bear in the most disadvantaged regions of the Community. The benefits of growth are not shared by everyone, far from it! Thus, in the French overseas territories, there are dramatically high levels of unemployment: 27% in Martinique, 30% in Guadeloupe, 37% in Réunion. Far from being resolved, this situation has, in recent years, been constantly exacerbated, with the unfortunate consequence that every year it is thousands of young people who have all hope taken away from them! To “have your whole life before you”, as the saying goes, at 25 without any chance to make plans for the future, no prospects other than unemployment and a minimum subsistence income – surely this is worse than a death sentence? Should we be surprised (or indignant, as some are), in such conditions, at the temptation towards violence which permeates our young people and, occasionally, blows the cover off our social boiling pot? The situation is all the more worrying because it is not the result of the current economic situation. It is a situation brought about by our remoteness, our insularity, and the very structure of our societies, their demographic dynamic. This means that the traditional remedies have no chance of success: growth returning and lasting in the long term will not be enough for the prospect of full employment to reappear! But this current state of affairs must not be seen as inevitable! Nothing is inescapable, and this is why an imaginative approach must be adopted, and the heart to find specific solutions to specific problems must be found. In this respect, the new Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam, by making a special case of the overseas departments as belonging to the outermost regions of the Union, gives us the opportunity to implement derogations to Community law in the interests of their development. It is important to remember that the European Council of Cologne last June had invited the Commission to present by the end of this year a raft of proposals intended to substantiate this new legal basis. This is the area where this House must apply its vigilance, ensuring that these measures are characterised by audacity and ambition. This is the only means of tackling the problems that these regions experience; it is the only opportunity to avoid disappointing the great expectations of their populations, the extreme points of Europe at the heart of the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean. –  Mr President, Commissioner, firstly, I too would like to congratulate Mr Corrie on the quality of his report, which appropriately reflects the tenor of the debates in the Joint Assembly he so effectively co-chaired. The eradication of poverty was central to our work and many speakers highlighted the need to preserve an essential tool for achieving that ambitious aim, to whit, preferential agreements between the European Union and the ACP countries within the framework of the Lomé Conventions. The challenge was immense. Globalisation, free trade, and the hegemony of the WTO with its internationalist philosophy, were imperilling the very essence of the North-South dialogue. So we can only applaud the conclusion of a new partnership agreement for development, and personally I am convinced that the work of the last Joint Assembly did have a decisive influence on breaking the deadlock in the negotiations, as did the new climate created by the events at Seattle. However, while I welcome the renewal of the agreements, what I find most interesting is the new wind blowing through our relationships and finding expression in the balanced nature of the negotiations now drawing to a close. The European Union seems to me to have finally emerged from the old paternalist, or frankly neo-colonialist, logic where those giving aid are all too eager to start giving lessons, following a formula our friend Michel Rocard is so keen on. The Union has finally accepted the idea that dialogue cannot be genuine or effective unless it is the expression of a contract which respects the dignity of the partners. By refusing to allow the idea of good governance to become a tool, in the hands of technocrats, for imposing new sets of conditions, the European Union is demonstrating wisdom and modesty. We have spent two centuries laying the foundations of a democracy whose fragility is constantly brought home to us by events. What right have we to try to impose our model on people whose history, values and identity are sometimes so profoundly different from our own? Personally, I prefer the willingness that is clearly flagged up in these agreements to extend the partnership to new agents – local authorities, non-governmental organisations – which seems to me to represent the only possible way the people of these countries can progressively achieve ownership cooperation. In short, this is the only way they can emerge from humiliating and childlike dependence on aid and take responsibility for themselves, the proof of success. –  “He knew what those jubilant crowds did not know but could have learned from books: that the plague bacillus never dies or disappears for good; that it can lie dormant for years and years in furniture and linen-chests; that it bides its time in bedrooms, cellars, trunks, and bookshelves; and that perhaps the day would come when, for the bane and the enlightening of men, it would rouse up its rats again and send them forth to die in a happy city.” It is with these phrases that Albert Camus, at the close of the long allegorical novel describing the difficult fight of the citizens of the town of Oran against the plague, reminds us, at the close of the Second World War, that the fight against Nazism, “the brown plague” as it was termed at the time, could not enjoy a definitive victory. That because racial hatred, xenophobic violence, fear and rejection of what is different, have deep roots in all that is basest in humanity, they may re-emerge at any moment and take over any group of human beings. In this light, the events we are seeing in Austria must be seen as tragic. For the first time since the Second World War, a party which is openly pro-Nazi, racist and xenophobic has gained access to power in a European country. Confronted with this threat, which carries with it the negation of the very idea which lies at the heart of the construction of Europe, nothing must deter us: not the legal quibbling about what the treaty does or does not permit, not the legitimate questions about the right to intervene, not the derisory respect for formal democracy, and, above all, not the feeling of powerlessness which grips us in the face of an event which we reject with all the force of our convictions but which we are powerless to control. As the representative for a French overseas department, the island of Réunion, a land of racial and ethnic intermixing, where the population has been forged in the course of the last three centuries by the successive contributions of Europeans, blacks from Africa or Madagascar, enlisted men from India or Pakistan, or even Chinese, every day I experience the profound truth of the remark by Saint-Exupéry, “In being different to me, you are not doing me harm, brother, but enriching me!” This human diversity is our main sources of wealth, and this is the reason why it is my duty to track down and to condemn anything which may be harmful to it, wherever it may exist. For all these reasons I voted most decidedly in favour of the resolution before this House on the formation of the government in Austria. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first challenge facing the future of regional policy is, of course, that of enlargement. The disparity in the level of development between the richest and poorest regions will be doubled. We must, therefore, face up to the challenge of cohesion. In the first place, territorial cohesion is needed to take account of the geographical diversity of the European Union, in order to ensure that all European citizens are treated equally. Secondly, economic and social cohesion are necessary to ensure that the regions that are currently most vulnerable are not sacrificed on the altar of enlargement. At stake is whether the people accept the reality of enlargement. The very fabric of our common project is being tested in this way. A supportive, fair and unitary regional policy must be developed. It must not be a uniform policy, however. Account needs to be taken of the specific regional situations. In this regard, it is encouraging that the Convention chose to retain the content of Article 299, paragraph 2 of the treaty on the ultra-peripheral regions and make room for it in the future constitutional treaty. This is an initial first victory. It has yet to be confirmed by the Heads of State or Government. There is still a long way to go, and crucial questions remain to be answered. For example, what importance should be attached to the report published this summer raising the fear that regional policy might be renationalised? How could better account be taken of the specific situations of regions in the next financial programme? Lastly, how can the unique and original dimension nature of the ultra-peripheral regions be translated into concrete measures in the next programming period? Commissioner, we are all currently working towards European integration. The citizens of Europe will assess our success on the basis of the proposals that you draw up in coming months. For my part, I trust Europe will become socially just and economically competitive. Above all, however, I hope it will become a territorially balanced Europe. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the cane-sugar rum sector provides almost 40 000 jobs in three of the four French overseas departments. By allowing producers in these departments to supply only the French market with a limited quantity of ‘traditional’ rum for a seven-year period, we are giving these businesses the means to fight against stiff competition from some third countries and, in doing so, we are protecting the future of thousands of jobs. However, I personally deplore the fact that, despite the request made by France, the Commission has not stated that it is in favour of a longer derogation period, which would have been a more appropriate way to reflect the economic logic of this matter as well as the letter and the spirit of the notorious Article 299(2) of the Treaty. Despite the fact that some progress has been made, the implementation of this article for now only partially meets the expectations that it raised. We must, however, take ambitious measures and do so quickly. The people are asking us to do this, and it is our political responsibility to respond. I must firstly congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his work. The broad guidelines of European economic policy developed in this report seem to be heading in the right direction. Full employment and the transition to a knowledge-based economy form our common aim for the first decade of the 21st century. Whether or not the pessimists like this, all the economic lights are on green. We must therefore be bold in order to continue the growth now being witnessed at European level. The prospects for the years 2000 and 2001 are encouraging, with growth forecasts of over 3%. This will reinforce social links, increase solidarity and equal opportunities and, in particular, eliminate the inevitability of the mass unemployment which we have been enduring for too long. This last point clearly poses the main problem. Although unemployment has already gradually reduced, it is still at an unacceptable level throughout the Community, given the forecasts for 2001 of 8% unemployment among the working population. This is particularly true at the outer edges of the Community, in other words in the most remote regions. As I have said many times before, the fruits of growth must be shared equally by all European citizens, both mainlanders and islanders. This is the price of constructing a 21st century Europe with a human face in whose collective development everyone is involved. In this way we will all be able to make progress in our own individual areas, but still be heading in the same general direction. I voted in favour of the report by Mr Katiforis because I believe in this Europe. . On Tuesday, 11 September 2001, airliners full of passengers crashed into two symbols of American omnipotence, in this case the twin towers and the Pentagon. America was wounded to the core, but an entire vision of civilisation was also attacked. There is one lesson that we must learn from this appalling act inflicted on the United States, globalisation’s main player and beneficiary in a process which is becoming increasingly inegalitarian. The lesson is that the industrialised countries can no longer afford not to discuss North-South relations. The outbursts seen in Seattle, Göteborg and Genoa bore the first symptoms of this global divide. We must now ask searching questions, particularly about the bodies that regulate globalisation. Mr Désir’s report is enlightening on this matter. In Seattle, for example, the United States’ delegation comprised around 150 people and those of Japan and the European Union around one hundred, whereas most of the developing countries had just one representative. In such circumstances, it is difficult for the world’s poorest countries to ensure that the voice of their people is heard. Although the legitimacy of the WTO cannot be questioned, its workings, its transparency and its effectiveness in terms of wealth distribution are debatable to say the least. I would say that the rapporteur’s proposals intended to respond to this threefold challenge are a step in the right direction, and that is why I have voted in favour of his report. Nevertheless, our action must not stop there: we must also take direct action on the debts of poor countries, show less arrogance towards our southern partners and more respect for them, and stop trying to impose our form of civilisation on them. The fourth WTO ministerial conference, due to take place in Doha, in Qatar, in November, is in this sense an opportunity that we must grasp if we are to translate our fine-sounding words into practical action, like pillars supporting a fairer world, in which there is greater solidarity between nations. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 January 2002, Madagascar’s High Constitutional Court published the result of the elections. The slow procedure and the quasi-monarchic nature of the regime that has been in power for almost 20 years, which, in particular, had led Madagascar’s government to refuse the presence of international observers, and the ambiguities found in the public statements made by the opposition, sow more than a seed of doubt as to whether these results are reliable. But are Madagascar’s leaders solely responsible for this parody of democracy? Why was this country, which is one of the poorest countries in the world, not the focus of particular attention from international public opinion before these regrettable events occurred? Have the countries of Europe, and France in particular, forgotten the past they share with Madagascar? Ladies and gentlemen, the Madagascans do not need us to take them by the hand, nor do they need us to make electoral choices on their behalf. However, Europe cannot, under any circumstances, stand aside and do nothing. In spite of the ‘good behaviour’ that the observers have emphasised – which is one of the Madagascan people’s defining characteristics – the situation is exceptional for this country. More than 500 000 people take to the streets every day to demonstrate on a scale that has not been seen since the country gained independence. Madagascar has been brought to a virtual standstill by a general strike that is having disastrous consequences, and the support for which is as strong as ever despite being in its tenth day. We cannot remain indifferent, given the serious nature of this situation. We must therefore adopt initiatives to help the people of Madagascar to rediscover a dignified way of life. And this will only happen if the second round takes place in a transparent fashion; in other words, if the international organisation and if the European Union ensure the elections are conducted in the proper manner. We must demand that the two candidates show respect for the Rule of Law and safeguard civil peace so that the electoral problems do not escalate into an ethnic dispute. We must quite simply call for the voice of the people to be heard and for their verdict to be respected. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is now perfectly clear that we must rebuild a European agricultural model. Instead of having a model based exclusively on production, we must instead redefine a multifunctional agricultural policy which provides social balance and job stability, land management and respect for the environment. I believe that this political choice is, without doubt, the right choice. However, it also brings a challenge with it, that is, to reform the European common agricultural policy so as to adapt it to the requirements of the twenty-first century in order to guarantee a future for the European agricultural model in an increasingly globalised economy. This is an ambitious project but one that is crucial. We must allocate the resources to achieve this ambition by gradually re-allocating a significant part of the Community budget of the ‘market’ pillar to the ‘rural development’ pillar, whilst encouraging all types of agricultural businesses, and particularly the most fragile. This is because Europe must not sacrifice the crops that it does not consider sufficiently profitable on the altar of outright profit. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also speaking to you on behalf of the producers of the outermost regions, who sometimes feel abandoned when faced with the breaking up of many COMs imposed by the WTO under pressure from the Americans. The sugar cane/sugar/rum industry provides almost 40 000 jobs in the French overseas departments; the banana industry provides 65 000 jobs in the West Indies and the Canaries. It is important not only for the survival of these regions, but also for the defence of the European agricultural model. If we cease to support these crops, we shall be leaving the way open to Latin American multinationals, which consider the respect of social and environmental standards, or even human dignity itself, to be of secondary importance. And we will be turning our back on the agricultural industry that we wish to build, an industry that is committed to environmental preservation, consumer protection and an industry that is concerned with the economic, social and also territorial cohesion of the European Union. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to express my solidarity with the pain of the Nepalese people, who are currently experiencing one of the most difficult moments in their history. As Vice-Chairman of the South Asia delegation, I had the opportunity to meet King Birendra, a man of stature who was able to shake up his country’s secular political traditions by establishing a constitutional monarchy. A veritable force for stability, he represented the hope that the Nepalese people would emerge from absolute poverty and that the rule of law and democracy would become established for the long term. The tragic death of the person whom the people of Nepal regarded as the symbol of the nation’s unity and the force binding it together is the source of numerous concerns and raises countless questions. Indeed, behind the drama a political process has been brutally called into question. A link of confidence between the political class and its people has been broken. It is a significant change in the balance of power in a region where instability reigns. The European Union attaches great importance to respect for human rights and to democratic principles. We must therefore roundly condemn the repression and arrests which followed the death of the king. Nor can we remain silent over the distressing problem of the refugee camps in Bhutan, to which I am particularly sensitive, having visited them last year as a member of the delegation, and hope that the positive actions which were embarked upon to solve this problem are pursued with the same vigour. Lastly, I too would like to appeal to the Commission for a full delegation to be established in Kathmandu, in order to try to help these traumatised people to heal their wounds. . –  The Joint Parliamentary Assembly was established from the desire to bring the European Union closer to the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States, with the aim of enhancing the economic, social, institutional and cultural development of the ACP countries. On 23 June 2000, a new agreement was signed at Cotonou in Benin. It is intended to last 20 years and to reinvigorate the cooperation policy between the European Union and the ACP countries: this is now urgently needed. The new agreement, which is due to enter into force this year, goes beyond the strict framework of trade and public aid – which is certainly needed but is not sufficient – it adds a more political dimension by introducing ‘good governance’. But be careful, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be mistaken. It is misleading to think that we could transpose into developing countries a State model similar to the one that we constructed in developed democracies. It is equally misleading to think that the end of poverty decrees that development gains ground, rather than being brought in from outside. First and foremost, development is and must be endogenous, because determining export priorities involves making a very dangerous choice – it highlights differences and tensions by encouraging the emergence of a caste of entrepreneurs who are focused on their profit alone, to the detriment of the people. It is therefore hoped that this new agreement will take a responsible approach and that the former colonial powers, which include many Member States, finally break free from their guilty practices and will resolutely commit to a new partnership with the ACP countries. This would be a partnership that places the emphasis on appreciating the specific assets of each country and not on transposing a European model that cannot be adapted to Africa or some Asian countries. Being from the island of Réunion, I am, without doubt, the MEP who lives closest to the African continent. I can assure you that we must pursue our efforts so that this continent, which has for too long been mistreated, finally emerges from under-development. Therefore, I willingly voted in favour of these new agreements. .The Convention, which was instructed to draw up the draft Constitution for a Europe of 25, published its report at the beginning of the summer. Although the lack of change on some issues is to be regretted – and is this not inevitable – on others, we can only welcome the progress made by the Convention. Promoting territorial cohesion is now one of the European Union’s main objectives and, as a Member of the European Parliament representing an overseas territory, I am bound to welcome this fact. Those who saw the work of the Convention as an opportunity to consign Article 299(2) of the EC Treaty, concerning the outermost regions to the dustbin were seriously misguided. The desire to see the content of this article feature in the future Constitution, is indeed legitimate but there was no guarantee that it would happen. I believe that this new development demonstrates the desire to build a Europe that is united in its diversity, a Europe that is willing to provide assistance, a Europe that cares about the development of all citizens and a Europe that provides itself with the legal means to achieve all this! This is what I have been fighting for, together with others and I am thinking in particular of Mrs Pervenche Berès and Mr Olivier Duhamel, who are both representatives of the French Socialist delegation to the Convention and I should like publicly to offer them my thanks. –  I would like to tell the Minister that I do not find his answer very satisfactory. What we are actually facing is the need to have a new association agreement that must come into force on 1 March 2000 and I am a little surprised that, at this stage, no decision has yet been taken on the three guidelines, on the three paths that have been sketched out.  I would like to ask the Council how, when these paths are sketched out, it intends to link, as it were, Parliament with the definition of this new financial instrument, because there is no doubt that a new financial instrument will be needed because what exists at the moment is no longer suitable for the situation of the overseas countries and territories and does not match up to these countries’ requirements. . – I wish to start by congratulating Mr Imbeni on the quality of his report. This report is fully in keeping with the philosophy of our institution, which has always made its voice heard in the least well off countries, through its opinions, its resolutions or specific action to improve and develop humanitarian aid. Since the European Community Humanitarian Office (ECHO) was created at the beginning of the 1990s, Europe has taken its place as the biggest donor in the world. However, despite legitimate efforts driven by historical links between certain European countries and developing countries, we are forced to admit that poverty is increasing throughout the world. Today, half the world lives on less than two dollars a day. This is unacceptable! Has the money released been squandered? I do not think so. Without the emergency aid provided by ECHO in order to deal with the natural disasters or serious crises which regularly hit the most vulnerable people on our planet, I hardly dare imagine the situation which we would have to deal with today. Nonetheless, humanitarian aid needs to be rationalised. In this respect, I welcome the fact that the House is calling for more coherent, more coordinated help and for greater collaboration between the various partners, such as the executive Commission, the Member States, the various associations or even the United Nations. In addition, apart from humanitarian aid proper, we need to find ways of improving conflict prevention because 25% of the African continent is still being torn apart by war. Finally, even if the problem of development is a multi-dimensional problem and the European Union does not have all the answers, we still need to continue and step up our action in order to lay the foundations for sustainable world development and help eradicate poverty. In any event, this was the concept which inspired the work of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, which is why I voted in favour of the report presented today by Mr Imbeni. *** –  Exactly eight months ago, this House sent a very clear message to the Commission: the adoption of a wholly tariff-based system after a transitional period of six years would inevitably condemn banana producers within the Community and those from the ACP to bankruptcy and misery. Unfortunately, the Commission’s declared obsession with finding a system that is both viable and compatible with the all-powerful WTO has won the day over any other consideration. Let me make this quite clear: I am aware of the importance of this body, but what I, like others, refuse to accept is globalisation! This is a form of globalisation for the richest few and for them alone. This is a form of globalisation that scorns the most basic human rights. In short, this is a form of globalisation unfettered by any democratic regulation. With regard to the banana dossier, I must once again mention the unhappiness of our small producers in Guadeloupe, Martinique and the Canaries, who feel swindled, abandoned and sacrificed at the altar of a macroeconomic rationale that they do not understand. The Commission’s proposal is unacceptable in its current state, as it constitutes an unconditional capitulation to the dictates of the U.S! This capitulation is unworthy of this European project of ours and of the social and environmental model that we claim we want to construct. That is why I voted in favour of the report by Mr Dary, who, by opposing this capitulation, does an honour to our Parliament. The new round of negotiations of the World Trade Organisation, due to open in Seattle on 30 November, should provide an opportunity to establish better control of the liberalisation of trade. But I doubt that this will be the case. The doubt concerns our capacity, and our real determination, to make the WTO an instrument of regulation in order to make the transition from globalisation sought by the few and inflicted on all to truly regulated world trade which is of benefit to the whole planet. Indeed it is this doubt which gives rise to my concern that if we do not succeed on this point, then we shall be forced to renege on longstanding commitments to developing countries, particularly towards ACP countries, to which we have been linked for 20 years by the Lomé Conventions. At the risk of denting our clear conscience, I would at this point like to mention the example of the banana dispute, or the multinationals (Del Monte, Dole and Chiquita) which, with the support of the United States, are flooding the European market with bananas which are the product of slavery, produced, what is more, in conditions of the most dubious food safety and have managed to force us to our knees; a matter in which we are on the verge of unconditional surrender, abandoning hundreds of thousands of growers, not only in ACP countries, but also the farmers of our own Community in Guadeloupe and Martinique, to bankruptcy! And recent statements by the Commission are not such as to allay this concern, saying, for example, that it is necessary to put an end to the banana conflict since it is poisoning transatlantic relations and because the Union would be sending an unfavourable message to the world as the new trade negotiations are dawning. Who could possibly be against putting an end to the conflict? No one, of course, but not at just any price, not by surrendering unconditionally. The same applies to rum, since we have signed a unilateral agreement with the United States on the import of colourless spirits, and that includes rum, which will inevitably lead in the short term to the economic destabilisation of the entire Caribbean! What will happen tomorrow, unless we are particularly vigilant, in the case of sugar, which is a crucial element in the economic balance of ACP countries such as Mauritius or a European region, such as Réunion, which I know well? The truth is, I am afraid, that whatever our fine statements, often with a touch of paternalism, we are on the verge of writing off our policy with regard to the poorest countries and to ACP countries, in particular, abandoning the farmers in our own outermost regions in the process. And yet we have historic links with these countries. Let me tell you, it is not just a matter of generosity. For many of our countries, which are in fact former colonising powers, it is a very powerful moral commitment which we are honour-bound to respect! Therefore, even though the resolution put to the vote this morning is a text which is perfectly acceptable in terms of the general objective which we have set ourselves, particularly thanks to the many amendments proposed by the members of my group, I did not vote in favour of this text, so as to fulfil the commitments which I have undertaken with regard to the voters in the French Overseas Departments. –  Mr President, Mr President-designate, just a few words on the WTO and agriculture. We do indeed need the WTO in order to organise the opening of markets and not to suffer from them. This is particularly true for agriculture. Everyone knows that our form of agriculture, our rural environment, is not comparable to that in Australia, Argentina and the USA. Confronted with this, Europe therefore has a duty to defend its own model of agriculture and has the right to an appropriate common agricultural policy. We expect specifically that multinational agreements integrate the concerns of our farmers and of our consumers. We expect the forthcoming negotiations to expressly take into account the fact that, in Europe, we have structures of production, and environmental and social conditions, which entail costs which must be compensated by public subsidy. I also wish to point out that competitiveness in agriculture is measured not only on the world market but also in terms of balance of the land, maintenance of the fabric of rural life and conservation of our natural heritage. That is why the concept of multifunctionality in agriculture must also be recognised in the WTO. That is why, Commissioner, we intend to continue the debate on all these matters with the Commissioners concerned and we intend to monitor developments in negotiations very closely. . –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the own-initiative report on agricultural incomes is to help us review the implementation of the European agricultural model based on multifunctionality and the competitiveness of farms. Incomes are in fact the barometer of the viability of farms. Without sufficient incomes, farmers disappear and production moves away from the most fragile areas. But if farmers are eliminated and concentration accelerates, we risk moving away from the European model we advocate, which involves the presence of farmers on all territories. The analysis of incomes is therefore of obvious interest. The relevant findings for the period 1995 to 2002 are as follows. Firstly, the average agricultural income in the Europe of the 15 rose by 7% with large national variations, for example +32% in Portugal and –30% in the United Kingdom. Secondly, public support accounts for more than 50% of this figure, but its distribution is debatable. Twenty percent of farms receive 73% of aids for 59% of areas and 25% of employment. Thirdly, producer prices fell by 1.1% while consumer prices rose 11%. Fourthly, the slight improvement in this average income comes from the fact that the cake is shared between fewer and fewer farmers since the number of people working in this sector fell by 15.7% over the same period. We must therefore ask ourselves whether the phenomenon can be allowed to continue without jeopardising our European model of agriculture. This question is all the more serious because the application of multifunctionality is going to result in higher production costs even though public support is set to decline for farmers of the 15 Member States between now and 2013, chiefly because of the rise in Community support for agriculture in the ten new countries. The European Union cannot remain indifferent to this situation. We need to give some thought to the direction of future changes to the CAP to make it consistent with the two objectives of multifunctionality and competitiveness which we have set for farms. From this point of view, the market must tend to reward the act of agricultural production. As for public support, it must increasingly go to pay for the non-market services that agriculture performs for society. The most recent CAP reform includes positive steps forward in this direction, especially with the conditionality and modulation of aids. With decoupling, though, the CAP is establishing historically acquired rights that will have the effect of preventing remuneration for multifunctionality for all farms on all territories. It is therefore absolutely essential to get away from these historical rights, something that will be possible gradually if modulation is substantially increased. On the matter of market-generated income, I recommend restoring priority to pricing and market policy, taking the view that progress in product quality, necessary as it is, is only the passport giving access to those markets. Several directions will therefore have to be opened up or reaffirmed so that the market can play its part without prices collapsing and taking incomes with them. I will quote them: ‘flexible, production-based regulation of supply; the introduction of production-based safety nets; Community encouragement of sectoral policies for a better distribution of added value; our imports should be subject to the same standards as those of the Union’. From this report, Members will all understand that there is still a tremendous amount to be done if the CAP is to achieve its objectives. Our European agricultural model was legitimate in its conception. It must become so in reality again. That is why I regret the Commissioner’s absence from this debate all the more. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there seems to me to be no question as to the validity of the proposed directive on harmonisation of the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products. Obviously, the proposal to tighten up standards for maximum nicotine, tar and carbon monoxide content in cigarettes must be considered one of the ways of ensuring better public health protection.  As a member of Parliament’s Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I should particularly like to highlight the fact that tobacco producers are not opposed to the changes proposed by the Commission, insofar as these changes are justified on public health grounds. Like them, however, I deplore the fact that the Commission has not carried out an impact study concerning the effect of the proposal on the production sector, as it did for a number of businesses, particularly small- and medium-sized businesses. They thus failed to take account of the fact that, on the whole, European producers will not be capable of supplying products to the required quality by the deadline of 2003. This leads me to advocate delaying the date when these new provisions come into force. Let me remind you that the tobacco sector, involving 130 000 producers and 400 000 seasonal workers, is more often than not located in regions which present very few alternatives for farm production. This is a social reality which must not be forgotten, especially since, in economic terms, European production accounts for less than 25% of European tobacco consumption. In these circumstances, jeopardising the situation of European producers would only be of benefit to the multinationals involved in import and export. I should not like to think that this might be our objective. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, within the space of a few weeks the BSE phenomenon has developed dramatically and is now a virtually universal problem in Europe. The situation has become alarming, given the fall in consumption and exports and the prospect of having to administer huge stocks of beef and veal. It is an extremely critical situation, since it has driven cattle breeders to the brink of ruin, while the amount allocated to the EU agricultural budget is almost bound to prove insufficient. In this context, Commissioner, the first imperative is that Member States show discipline and solidarity in implementing the adopted Community measures so as not to increase the size of the collective bill. Even though we shall have to await the February meeting of the Council, and probably other major European gatherings too, before all the consequences can be assessed, we can already highlight a few key issues. To that end, let me point out the primacy of food safety and consumer protection, and the consequent need for tighter controls to lend credibility to the decisions that are taken as well as the need for a European food agency to be set up quickly. Let me also emphasise the need to establish greater solidarity between the various sectors within the CAP in each Member State, particularly by applying the cross-sector rules enshrined in Agenda 2000. I might also mention Europe’s duty to comply with international provisions and to support the development of the production of vegetable proteins to replace meat and bone meal in animal feed. Finally, may I stress the need to take on board all the lessons we have learned from the development of agriculture which has resulted from our successive common agricultural policies and from our international commitments. Has not our past development, rooted in a quest for maximum competitiveness and a larger share of the global market, gone too far in the direction of industrialisation and profit-seeking? For my part, I believe it has reached its limits and that we shall have to rethink it, particularly in the context of the WTO talks and the framing of a new CAP. Be that as it may, how could agriculture be given the promise of a new dawn if BSE were to bring about the demise of its producers? This, Commissioner, is precisely why I also plead for genuine, serious consideration of the expectations of livestock breeders and all the other players in the agricultural production process, who must receive help to ride out this crisis. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate Mr Stevenson on the quality of his report. It is the result of a very long period of work, carried out intelligently, taking account of the opinion of his fellow Members and the experts we have heard within the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I sincerely thank Mr Stevenson. The issue of plant protein supply for the European Union obviously involves economic factors, but also, and more importantly, it involves strategic aspects relating to the nature of the European agricultural model and the role played by this model in external trade. We should be aware that we import almost 80% of the plant proteins required to fulfil our needs and that this heavy reliance cannot be approached solely from the point of view of the commercial interests at the time. Aside from the current matter of GMOs in imported soya proteins, we must ask ourselves what would happen in Europe if, for whatever reason, whether due to climate or other reasons, the supply from the United States, Brazil and Argentina were to be cut off. Commissioner, those affected by the American embargo in 1973, as I was, are aware of the price of this reliance and cannot tolerate the level of risks run today. Paradoxically, although demand is high in Europe, production here is stagnating, or even decreasing, and the worst thing is that the European Union does not seem determined to remedy this situation properly. Of course we can examine your proposals on the introduction of a ‘carbon credit’, which are a step in the right direction. The impact of this credit could, however, be limited by its small scale, and discontinuing the use of set-aside land for non-food crops might not be compensated for by the move towards some energy crops being produced by workers’ cooperatives. The various measures you are advocating on behalf of the Commission to adapt Agenda 2000 to current needs do not seem sufficient to address the current problems. This failure is both serious and regrettable. Without going so far as to set the unrealistic objective of total self-sufficiency, the European Union could still reduce its reliance on external suppliers. That, Commissioner, is why I ask you to examine more carefully the recommendations of the Stevenson report, which I, indeed we, find relevant. They were unanimously approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I recommend in particular that you pay attention to those advocating greater investment in research into the protein sector under the 6th FRDP and those concerning the introduction of plant protein-producing crops in cereal crop rotation. I believe the same applies to the security of our long-term supply and the promotion of sustainable agriculture. –  Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, like many of the Members here, I am delighted to note that the Brussels European Council was able to show that agricultural issues would not be a barrier to the entry of the ten countries to the European Union in 2004. Similarly, I also think it would be useful to know what the budget level of the first pillar of the CAP will be until 2013. Having said that, although the summit set the level of budgetary commitments, it did not adopt a position on how this would be achieved, in other words on the CAP’s provision for the second part of Agenda 2000 and after 2006. This major question therefore remains to be answered, since nobody can dispute the fact that food safety, sustainable development and land-use planning are still undeniably fundamental issues that need to be resolved without delay. They alone justify a review, or at least significant changes to the current CAP as of 2004. That is the purpose of the only amendment that we as the PSE Group are tabling with regard to the resolution tabled by Mr Daul on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on which Parliament will vote tomorrow. On the one hand, therefore, we have society’s expectations, to which the CAP must provide swift, positive responses; on the other, there is our strategic position in the WTO negotiations, which will be more successful if it is based on effectively strengthening the multifunctionality of European agriculture within the context of rural development, as well as partially decoupling public aid to production. It would be better to adopt an offensive stance in negotiations so that we can rally the developing countries, in particular in questioning the US Farm Bill, rather than running the risk of being a target for all the special interest groups present within the WTO. Beyond that, Commissioner, I would draw your attention to the need for qualified external protection and internal market regulation, to ensure that the efforts made by farmers to protect the environment, their work and product quality are appropriately compensated. – Mr President, the WTO has challenged our Community regulation on bananas several times and each time we have had to redefine the content of this COM and suffer the burden of the fines imposed on us as reparations for damage caused. It is certainly not easy to find a balanced response which would satisfy our four objectives, which are: supplying consumers at reasonable prices, guaranteeing a future to our Community producers, honouring the Union’s commitments to ACP countries and, finally, at the same time, presenting a case which cannot be attacked by the WTO. However, in the light of these four concerns, Mr Dary’s proposal is entirely apt, at least that was the feeling of Parliament’s Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in unanimously supporting it, a quite exceptional occurrence for such a sensitive subject. In fact it seems to us that the choice of maintaining the import quotas plus preferential tariffs for the ACP countries for ten years, instead of six, would make it possible to plan for the future of Community and ACP producers, who face a form of competition tantamount to social and environmental dumping. That we are seeking elimination of any automatic movement to ‘tariff only’ should not be regarded as downright rejection of the measure. Our intention is to let the situation develop in a way that is economically and socially tolerable for our producers and those of the ACP countries, without damaging the openness of our market. So the European Union certainly has arguments to present to the WTO, so that this time our approach is recognised as valid. Of course, the Union may have difficulty determining the quotas in the immediate future, but is that exercise any more difficult than agreeing on adjustments to the customs tariff in the ‘tariff only’ hypothesis? For my part I am convinced that the approaching start of the next WTO cycle should mean we can handle this issue positively in a more global context and for that I am counting on the Commission’s determination. – Mr President, Minister and President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, foot-and-mouth disease has arrived in France, in my own department, despite a cordon sanitaire being erected between the United Kingdom and continental Europe and despite draconian measures being taken in my country, most notably the slaughter of 20 000 sheep which arrived from Great Britain just before the decision to impose an embargo to counteract the spread of the disease. As you can imagine, this known case of foot-and-mouth disease has raised a lot of questions and aroused a lot of fear amongst livestock farmers and rural populations. I think we can reassure consumers, since this disease cannot be transmitted to humans, but it is more difficult to quell the fears of farmers and operators in the industry who have already had to face the terrible consequences of BSE. Nonetheless, I too want to express my determination not to succumb to panic. For almost ten years, there have been very few outbreaks and the outbreaks in 1993 in Italy and 1996 and 2000 in Greece appear to have been rapidly brought under control. In the current situation, and in the light of experience, it would appear fitting to get rid of the contaminated animals. This seems to be the most effective way of giving us hope that the source of the virus can be wiped out. At the same time, we must support the industry in this time of crisis and compensate farmers adequately so that we do not wipe out a profession as well as herds. It is also necessary to place the fight against this virus on an international level, as it is moving around the globe. It is in Asia, in India, in Latin America and Argentina. It is in Europe; hence my questions. How did this virus get to Europe from Asia? Has the story of the on-board meals of an airline company been adequately explained? What international prevention strategies can be put in place given, on the one hand, the extreme mobility of the virus and, on the other, the importance of passenger and goods traffic across the globe? What use are international guarantees if States cover up by not making declarations or by submitting inadequate declarations to the International Office of Epizootic Diseases? Mr President, Minister and President-in-Office, Commissioner, we really need you to explain these various aspects to us. Thank you very much. – Mr President, Commissioner, after the reform of the CAP we now have to deal with Cancun. It is quite clear that in this context it has to be said that our European trade objectives do not demonstrate our will to reduce the gaps in development between North and South, between developed countries and the rest of the world. In this sense, in terms of agriculture, we of course need to agree to increase the special and differential treatment for LDCs that are already included in the Marrakesh Treaty. We also need to confirm the results of Doha with regard to the substantial reduction of our export refunds, and at the same time, to ensure that this measure is extended to all forms of export subsidies because we are aware that it is not only the Union that is involved. At the same time, it is clear that the Union should condemn the recent American farm bill, which protects American producers against the ups and downs of the market, and which therefore threatens to generate an excess in supply and a fall in prices on international markets. As well as this, Commissioner, the Union must defend the right of each Member State of the WTO to set its production and food safety standards and to apply them to the products that come on to their markets. European producers have a right to this guarantee on imports, as well as international recognition of geographical indications in order to increase the value of their regions and traditional know-how. All in all, Commissioner, Cancun must benefit the developing world, but without being detrimental to the large majority of small and medium-scale European farmers. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, first of all, to welcome the work of Mr Adam, our rapporteur, and to congratulate him on his desire to give some hope to sheep and goat farmers, who are, by and large, at the lower end of the scale of agricultural earnings. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has used its vote, as you quite rightly pointed out, to confirm the principle of a basic deficiency payment, of a rural premium and of a supplementary flexibility premium based on the criteria of produce quality, the environment or financial management. It is also the case that the levels set by our committee will have to be readjusted in plenary if Parliament hopes to influence Council and, therefore, maintain credibility. The Commission recommended a maximum of EUR 28 per head but the Committee on Agriculture raised the amount to EUR 44, which far exceeds the expectations of rearers and could, furthermore, prove difficult to reconcile with the room for manoeuvre provided by the budget. On behalf of my group, I have, therefore, retabled two of the rapporteur’s amendments designed respectively to reset the basic premium at EUR 25 per head and the premium for milk herds – ewes or she-goats – at EUR 20. In the ‘meat’ sector, the maximum aid per head would therefore, be EUR 39, which would ensure equal treatment in terms of public premiums per hectare for sheep breeders and milk-cow breeders. I would say that this is a totally logical approach, because these two types of production often exist side by side in the same regions and areas and even within the same holdings. In terms of the markets, we now have two situations at variance with one another: a surplus of beef and veal and a deficit of sheepmeat. If per-hectare premiums are set at an equivalent level, this could restore the balance of production, with the choices made by producers being influenced by market conditions. Furthermore, I recommend maintaining a difference between the basic premium for the ‘meat’ sector and the premium for the milk sector because to do otherwise would leave the sheep and goat milk sectors with no future, which nobody wants to see. This is why I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this evening you will support these amendments, which I think are both realistic and responsible. –  Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the European Parliament delegation attending the Doha Conference, I too would like to congratulate our Commissioners on the excellent work that they accomplished and the results that they obtained, which were undeniably very positive and which bear witness to the highly effective way in which our Commissioners handled these negotiations. I should also, above all, like to say how pleased I was with the excellent cohesion and solidarity between our three institutions which were represented in Qatar. Basically, and restricting my comments solely to the agricultural issues, I was interested to discover that the European Union has given itself the room to manoeuvre that is needed to reform its common agricultural policy in response to the new expectations of our society, because non-trade considerations were explicitly mentioned in the final ministerial declaration. It seems to me that this aspect is the vital element in the outcome of Doha. The priority for European farming today should no longer be to remain competitive in exports at any cost. It should be to satisfy social demand as regards food security and the sustainable rural development. The Union can also take advantage of a success that it has achieved with regard to the United States, because all forms of aid to exports will be subject to negotiation in the new round. Finally, it seems to me that the Union can congratulate itself on the fact that special and differential treatment for developing countries has been strengthened. That should enable them to respond to their needs, including those needs relating to food security and rural development. This prospect, in its turn, is more likely to encourage the development of farming for food production, and is therefore very important from the point of view of the world demand for food, which is expected to double in the next twenty-five years owing to the increase in the populations of the developing countries and the improvement in living conditions in the emerging countries. In all, I believe this agreement represents a good balance between trade liberalisation and regulation, and also between trade and the development of all types of farming. I just hope that the negotiations in the new round will fulfil the hopes that have now been raised. . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this evening we are going to be debating the situation of the pig industry and its COM, which has proved to be totally unsuitable in the face of the latest crisis which has just arisen. Between 1998 and 2000, production surged disproportionately, with an increase of 20 million head of pigs, reaching an annual total of 205 million pigs slaughtered in the European Union. This was accompanied by a 30% collapse in prices with its trail of consequences, which some producers, especially the young and those heavily in debt, often could not withstand. Having been made bankrupt, some breeders had no option but to change social status by becoming mere employees of cooperative or private farms, whilst continuing to work on their former holdings. Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the interpretation of the European agricultural model that the European Union wishes to project internationally. Quite clearly, in the light of the objectives contained in Regulation (EEC) No 2759/75, as amended, one conclusion has emerged, and that is that the tools of the pigmeat sector COM, including private storage aid and export refunds, are unsuitable and inadequate. We have private storage aid, which is of less interest to operators now that it is being implemented in the context of a structural crisis, and export refunds, which are always useful, but which are dependent on international agreements which impose increasingly stringent restrictions. It is necessary, therefore, to come up with new instruments to guard against a serious crisis re-emerging despite a high level of internal consumption and good use of export opportunities. The ongoing improvement of the productivity of pig producers is already generating a growth in supply and if this were to be accompanied by the unlimited extension of the apparatus of production, it would inevitably result, once again, in a serious imbalance in the market. The last crisis has taught us that the markets are now much slower to recover as, for the most part, specialised breeders maintain their overall production while waiting for better days to come. Ladies and gentlemen, under these conditions, the problem concerns less the future of production than the future of producers. That is why it is imperative that the European Union is equipped with flexible instruments to prevent and manage crises in the pig industry. Accordingly, the Commission has proposed incorporating a new tool into the COM: regulatory funds. The idea is a good one, certainly, but, as its application is optional for Member States and producers and it does not provide any suitable solutions for breeders in a period of crisis in return for the freeze on output it demands, it is of little interest. In its present form, it would most probably be ineffectual. That is why, fully aware of the extent of the problem, on the basis of my report the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development introduced amendments to make this proposal more attractive and more effective. These amendments introduce measures intended to make it possible to draw up reliable forecasts for the market based on thorough assessment of the means of production; to establish regulatory funds in all Member States, supported by Communityaid, so that any pig producer in the European Union, whether breeder or fattener, who wants to join can do so in return for a commitment to stabilise output for five years; to establish conditions for the cofinancing of these funds by producers or their producer associations and by the European Union in order to encourage producers to join; to adjust the aid payments from these funds during periods of crisis and finally, to commit Member States to adopting, together with the Commission, the measures which appear to them to be best suited to restoring the balance of the markets in the event of a crisis. This effort to firm up the market must take into account developments in production in each Member State and must have a bearing on producers who do not join the regulatory funds. Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are the solutions advocated by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We are convinced that these measures are such as to prevent crises in the pig industry, or indeed to manage them if by any chance they were to recur. By using instruments which are flexible, complementary and hence indissociable, and at a reasonable cost for the European Union, we should accept the fact that we can make the future less problematic for our producers. –  Mr President, I should like to address the Commission in order to express my wish that the year 2000 should enable us to make progress in the general direction of coherence, particularly in the field of agriculture. The fact is, if the European Union intends to fight for alternative rules for international trade, if it is to defend the European farm model, then it must acknowledge that there is still a lot to be done in order to put its political decisions into practice. In the banana case, for example, we have not so far been able to reconcile the interests of our producers, those in the ACP countries, with the demands of the WTO. Why not? Quite simply because the WTO, according to the Marrakech model, does not permit this, or permits it only with extreme difficulty. So why, after so often declaring that the WTO must incorporate social and environmental regulatory mechanisms, and that the European Union intends to guarantee advantages for LDCs, does the Commission still adhere exclusively to the prospect of market liberalisation in this sector? Since Seattle has challenged the inadequacies of existing WTO agreements, I would argue strenuously in favour of the Union handling this issue in accordance with the rules which we intend to see predominate in international trade. I would make the same call for coherence in another area, the management of the pigmeat crisis. You will be aware that, as a result of this crisis, which has now lasted for more than two years, many independent producers find that they have been relegated to being mere casual workers for firms or other large-scale producers. This is a situation which runs totally counter to our European farm model which is based on a multiplicity of diversified and multifunctional family farms. Here too, Mr Prodi, I would like to sound the alarm, and I would call upon the Commission to put forward new measures which are properly suited to managing this type of crisis, in addition, obviously, to what you are already proposing, i.e. a solidarity fund. My final point concerns the preparation of the budget for 2001. Admittedly, the budget lines for agriculture may be examined in order to reflect the need to show solidarity with the Balkans. This is true. We should, however, pay attention to meeting the commitments made in Berlin regarding the CAP and, more especially, to retaining adequate safety margins in order, in particular, to confront the crises which are damaging the fabric of agricultural and rural life. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, during Parliament’s last part-session, I expressed the concerns of my region, which is fighting an outbreak of the foot-and-mouth virus. I would today like to express our general feeling of relief that we have on a local level managed to contain the infection and that we are able to announce that the situation is under control with regard to the second holding in France where foot-and-mouth was discovered and treated, approximately 300 kilometres from the first site. Although there have only been these two outbreaks in France, we can, of course, deduce from this that the Community strategy to combat the foot-and-mouth virus is effective and very suitable since it is implemented in a most vigilant and strict manner. Despite our pleasure in having won the first battle, I do not think, however, that we can draw any firm conclusions. I would also like to stress that we will have to wait for the disease to be completely eradicated before we can accurately weigh up its impact in terms of health, the economy, as well as its psychological and budgetary impact. However, before we reach that stage, I would like to mention the problems that we need to deal with now. Farmers have fulfilled their role as a shield, with their herds being sacrificed in order to protect the community at large. The European and national community must now treat the farmers’ psychological suffering and ensure that their economic losses are totally compensated. The industry is destabilised and under threat. Member States and the European Union must deal with this situation as a matter of urgency and in a way that matches people’s needs. On several occasions, the general public has said that it does not understand the mass slaughter of animals when the virus poses no danger to humans. A specific statement should, therefore, be issued in order to clarify the health and economic issues of this disease for the benefit of citizens and on the possible direction of our health strategy, moving towards the use of technology to carry out vaccinations, for example. Commissioner, this is an exceptional situation. We must deal with it in an exceptional manner. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I too would like to praise the work that our fellow Member, Mr Sturdy, has carried out on the issue of amending the COM in beef and veal, following the BSE crisis. We are faced with several problems: we need to address the imbalance in the beef and veal market, support farmers’ income and restore consumer confidence. With regard to addressing the imbalance between supply and demand, first of all, I would like to point out that no one here  and that includes the Commission, the rapporteur and the Committee on Agriculture  is suggesting that we leave it simply to the effects of the free market. I would like to think that the need to regulate supply, as we have to do today, will also be uppermost in our minds when we tackle the new, further-reaching reform of the common agricultural policy. To return to the issue that we are dealing with today and in view of the reduced level that production must fall to, I would like to stress how crucial it is that we find a balance in the division of efforts required, on the one hand, by suckler herds and milk herds, and by industrial rearing methods and farms using grazing. It would be ironic, just when the need to produce quality beef and veal by encouraging the use of grass is acknowledged, if it is the traditional suckler herds that are the cause of the main expenses of this COM’s new adjustments. I therefore ask that the 90 head limit be reinstated in order to qualify for the special premium, which supports the Commission’s point of view. I am not neglecting the fact that the Member States who have waived this limit as part of Agenda 2000 could come up against some problems. Since Amendment No 12 of Article 1 introduces the possibility of taking into account wage costs, however, I believe that this measure is fair. In the same way, I believe that the farmers who are already being penalised by the fall in market prices must not be punished further by a reduction in government support for cutting their numbers of cows per hectare. I would also like to draw the Commission and the Council’s attention to this issue so that the level of premiums per hectare of forage area remains unchanged. As for the other points, naturally, I would also like to voice my support for not applying the ceiling for buying into public intervention of 350 000 tonnes of beef and veal per year in 2001 and 2002 as well as my support for the steps advocated by the rapporteur to promote beef and veal products. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I too plead for the respect of the founding principles of the CAP, against any form of renationalisation and for significant changes to be made to the CAP within the framework of the Berlin financial accords so that we can meet European society’s new expectations. Now more than ever before, all the policy’s COMs must promote or enhance the multifunctionality of our agricultural policy in order to guarantee food safety, sustainable development, rural development and territorial cohesion, in addition to animal welfare. This is what our fellow citizens now expect from Europe’s agricultural policy. This is what forms the basis of the European agricultural model, the recognition of which we must forcefully promote on the international stage. In other words, we need an agricultural industry that does not ‘produce more’ but ‘produces better’. We must make ourselves clear on this issue, however. If, on the one hand, European agriculture has no future other than to respond appropriately to the expectations of European citizens, there will, on the other hand, be no genuine multifunctionality unless the policy that is implemented provides its actors with sufficient income to enable them to make a living in all the Member States. Consumers and taxpayers must shoulder their responsibilities in this area. This means that we, as politicians, must concern ourselves, with the same degree of commitment, with both the needs of modern society and with agricultural incomes. In this area, I would warn against any approach that aims to limit the CAP to receiving only public funds for multifunctionality under the consolidated rural pillar, and submitting other areas of agricultural policy to market deregulation. Furthermore, I condemn the policy of the United States which, by means of excessive public support, will help to bring down world prices and flood our markets with GMO products. When all is said and done and to sum up, I personally plead for a restored CAP which, first and foremost, is based on a budget equal to its priorities, with public support that is distributed fairly amongst farmers depending on modulations. Secondly, a CAP that is based on an enhanced market management policy that promotes quality products and reduces our reliance on certain imports, such as those of vegetable protein. And thirdly, a CAP that is based on a policy relating to agricultural incomes which guarantees the continued existence of farms in all the Member States. Any change to the CAP that dismisses these three requirements would deceive both the citizens and farmers of Europe. –  Madam President, Commissioner, no one can fail to be moved by the problem that we are debating today, famine in the world, and since it is still so very acute we are called on to show greater political will, in particular at the forthcoming World Food Summit. It is therefore vital that at this summit the European Union participate fully in this battle to gain recognition of the fact that the right to food is a fundamental human right. It is true that famine may seem to be the consequence of bad distribution of food between over-nourished and undernourished countries. Nevertheless, the solution to this problem does not lie solely in establishing better trade between regions of abundance and regions of poverty. The priority has to be to find and promote solutions where the problem arises, if only to keep in step with the food culture of the people concerned and to consolidate the rural economy. From this point of view, the fight against hunger and poverty certainly requires us to cancel debt, support education and vocational training, increase technical assistance and encourage investment in these countries which are lagging behind. It also undoubtedly requires good use of water and the preservation of biodiversity, and we are expecting these to be declared 'inalienable public assets' by the international community. Above all, however, we cannot forget that it requires us to exploit fisheries and promote the development of food-producing agriculture on a sustainable model. In this sense, promoting agricultural practices which are adapted to local conditions, processing food products locally, developing local markets and ensuring that developing countries have freedom of choice when it comes to new technologies are priorities which are just as important in regions stricken by famine, and this means that the WTO's provisions on special and differentiated treatment will need to be reinforced. I would therefore ask our Commissioner to defend the ideas contained in Parliament's joint motion at the forthcoming World Food Summit. –  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer much point in discussing the package of agricultural prices since the 1992 CAP stipulated the gradual transition from a production price support system to a direct aid system, increasingly required to be dissociated from the production volumes. And as Agenda 2000 adopted and extended this approach, the establishment of agricultural prices is henceforth multiannual. While, however, it must still be possible to make annual adjustments, they must nonetheless comply, for the most part, with the commitments made in Berlin covering this period. This leads me, together with my colleagues on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, to refuse to endorse the Commission’s proposal to reduce the monthly increments for cereals in two phases, by 7.5% each time. The same applies to moisture content in cereals. The Berlin agreement must continue to be our benchmark. This is the principled position that the European Union adopted in Seattle with regard to its trading partners and competitors within the World Trade Organisation. Logically, then, it should also set the standard in our debates on internal CAP matters. In particular, the European Union must fulfil its commitments in order to enable European farmers to have a clear idea of the policy as it affects them, in order to be able to manage their farms as wisely as possible. I therefore think it imperative to lift the veil from this notion of making the agricultural sector pay for Kosovo. In this connection, then, I would urge the Commission to provide us very quickly with its proposed reform of the COM in sugar. –  Mr President, Mr Lamy, this morning the President-in-Office of the Council reminded us of the importance of the agriculture portfolio in the WTO negotiations, and I thank him for this. You already know that farmers in Europe are going to have to make great efforts to adapt in order to apply the Berlin compromise which, last March, represented the acceptable balance for the fifteen Member States of the European Union. You know that developing countries must be able to count on Europe in order to guarantee the legitimate rapid expansion of their own agriculture which is often the major sector in their economic development. You know that the United States is demonstrating today that the market alone finds it difficult to guarantee agricultural revenue. You must also know, then, that we are counting specifically on you to ensure that the WTO negotiations result in the outcome that we expect. Regarding access to the market, how is it possible not to recognise that Europe is not the well-defended fortress that it is unjustly accused of being, since we are the leading importer worldwide with a deficit trade balance in the food processing sector? This reality, Commissioner, must make it possible for you to campaign so that markets are opened up and tariff barriers are reduced according to gradual processes, varying according to sector. As for market protection mechanisms, if they must be adjusted, should they not be retained or reinforced for particular countries, and I refer to developing countries in particular? Regarding internal support, how is it possible not to make the most of the fact that Agenda 2000 is leading to a significant reduction in the overall extent of support, at a time when the United States are adopting a policy which goes in the opposite direction? This situation must make it possible for you to ensure that the blue box and the green box accepted at Marrakech are retained, and that the peace clause is renewed. Regarding export subsidies, how is it possible not to capitalise on the strategy of reduction which we are undertaking with the new common agricultural policy? This development must give you the possibility of demanding transparency and handling of the various forms of export aid used by our competitors. Commissioner, the Berlin Agreement was drawn up in order to give the European Union real room for manoeuvre in the Millennium Round. We have no doubt that you will be able to make use of this by building on the concept of multi-functionality which makes it possible to meet the various expectations of our societies as regards food quality, employment and sustainable rural development, the protection and conservation of the natural heritage and also regarding the balance between regions. This approach must afford Europe the opportunity to be open to interesting possibilities of alliance. This is why we are counting on you to take the offensive in these negotiations, in which you may count on our critical support. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we have gone from an Agenda 2000 mid-term review of the CAP to a reform that will be valid until 2013, in other words for ten years. It is therefore important that we make no mistakes in our fundamental choices. With this in mind, Commissioner, you have proposed two major objectives, multifunctionality and competitiveness in agriculture, both in the light of the desire to increase the European Union’s room for manoeuvre in WTO negotiations. On behalf of my group, I would therefore like to support this promotion of a multifunctional agriculture to meet the expectations of our society and underline the adequacy of resources, the conditionality of aids and the strengthening of actions in the second pillar. I would like to stress, however, that the rapporteur, Mr Cunha, has had the pertinent idea of increasing the modulation of aid rather than adopting your combination of degression and modulation, which is complex, administratively cumbersome and would leave few resources for the rural pillar. Turning now to the objective of competitiveness which, you say, entails reductions in prices for cereals and milk, I would like to point out that the application of multifunctionality will result in an overall increase in production costs, while at the same time direct aid to holdings will fall in the 15 Member States. In this context, to follow your recommendations would be unwise, to say the least, especially since it seems to me that the idea of Europe as an agricultural exporter needs to be looked at again to take account of the new market of 450 million consumers that we will shortly be. You seem, Commissioner, to see the decoupling of aid as a miracle solution, but it would be better if this were done partially and gradually, to put the Union in a better negotiating position at the WTO, but also so that we can make a first-stage appraisal before possibly going further. My group, the PSE, is proposing an amendment to this effect to increase decoupling to 50% for arable crops and male cattle from the time it is first implemented. It is a solution that combines boldness with caution and I ask all my fellow Members to support it. Finally, as it is legitimate to make a better distribution between farmers, crops and regions of the aids intended for holdings, my group fully supports the Cunha report’s Amendment No 61. This amendment in fact recommends that multifunctional credits be allocated according to the criteria of area and employment from 2007. Over all, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the absence of co-decision I think we have contributed enlightened and well thought-out opinions. I therefore want to conclude by congratulating Mr Cunha on his excellent report, which is the basis of the debate, and those by the other rapporteurs, who build on it consistently. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to pay tribute to Mr Dary’s feat: he not only succeeded in having his report on bananas adopted yesterday, but has also managed today to bring the last five-day part-session in the second millennium to a close. Mr Dary, bravo, you have mastered the art of communication, and this is precisely the reason why you were appointed to draw up the report before us right now. On a more serious note, I should like to emphasise the value of this proposal for a Council regulation on information provision and promotion for agricultural products on the internal market. The rapporteur presented the main points just now. I should just like to add, at this time when BSE is highlighting a number of abuses in forms of agriculture which place the emphasis on high productivity, that it is especially appropriate to raise the profile, within the internal market, of the specific qualities of agricultural products by including, as the rapporteur suggests, indications of production methods. For, while European agriculture may reasonably expect to be a force to be reckoned with on international markets, the fact nonetheless remains that its future is still linked to a greater extent to penetration of its own internal market, which comprises 370 million consumers today and will probably number almost 500 million tomorrow. From this point of view, campaigns for information provision and promotion, cofinanced by the European Union and the Member States, are essential both to help restore the somewhat tarnished image of agriculture in the eyes of consumers and, moreover, to bring about recognition of the excellent quality of the very great majority of our agricultural products. Of course, such institutional information campaigns must rather complement the advertising activities undertaken in particular by major distributors. There must be periodic campaigns targeted at specific populations or consumers in general in order to highlight aspects relating to, for instance, food safety, traceability, nutritional quality, the specific characteristics of production methods, or indeed the efforts made to promote animal welfare. And while such campaigns may achieve the desired objectives in relation to consumers, we must not for all that underestimate the concomitant impact they will have on the producers themselves, who will see them as a reward for their efforts and an incentive to continue them. Mr Dary, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has complied with your various recommendations. We now hope that Parliament will fall in line with them across the board, and I, of course, urge my own group to give you its complete support. Commissioner, you said that the European Union was unable to compensate farmers for their losses. I cannot believe that Europe would be prepared to abandon them in their plight. How are you planning to resolve this? My second question is that you outlined to us a plan to unleash and rebalance the market  on what consumer estimates was this based, 10%, 20% or 25% less? My third point concerns the cultivation of protein-rich crops on set-aside land. What impact do you expect this to have on reducing our deficit and our level of imports? – Mr President, agriculture will therefore still be one of the main subjects of the next round of WTO negotiations, and our European institutions all seem to agree that we should seek the recognition of our European Farm Model, protect the consumer, and treat the Berlin agreement as the framework of the Commission’s negotiating mandate. We now have to benefit from this coherence in the face of our competitors, our partners in the WTO. In this respect, we should make it clear that anything that can be done to inform, sensitise and mobilise public opinion, will strengthen the determination of our negotiators in the eyes of the Cairns Group, the United States and developing countries. We can already see that the pressure of our civil society can have contagious effects in our competitors’ camp. The proof can be found in what is currently happening in the United States, for example, with regard to GMOs. It is therefore necessary, as an extension of this matter, and with the aim of creating a favourable balance of power within the WTO, to debate, to communicate throughout Europe regarding the direction to be given to globalisation and the liberalisation of trade. For us Europeans, the aim of this globalisation should consist of reconciling economic competitiveness with a global development which is more balanced, more durable and better distributed especially between North and South. With regard to agriculture, we should establish a system for trade in agricultural products which is fair, based on the market certainly, but also on more general considerations such as public health, the environment, employment and balance between territories. It is in light of these objectives that there is good reason to carry out, without delay, an intermediary appraisal of the application of the Marrakech Agreements. Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, these aims should naturally form the basis of the principle of the global application of the agreement, which should take precedence in the negotiations. . –  The French socialist delegation has always defended and encouraged the strengthening of the existing positive relationship between agriculture and the environment. This is why we support the general objectives of the Myller report. However, we cannot accept the fact that an attempt is being made, in the guise of an amendment (Amendment No 150), to call into question the very elements which form the basis of the CAP. We cannot answer for the replacement of production aids. Today’s CAP no longer bears any resemblance to the policy of forty years ago; it has been fundamentally reformed. We wish to continue that work, but not in an insidious manner. Changes in direction are now possible and desirable. We support them, but we cannot rubber-stamp this amendment, which would lead to the calling into question of a whole section of the CAP without integrating it into the overall change of direction. –  Madam President, the negotiations in Cancún should have been an opportunity to take a first step towards fairer trade. However, they were scuppered. The developing countries reversed the traditional power relations within the WTO. This is an essential point to consider politically. But who will really benefit from this failure? I note, for my part, that the developing countries have not gained anything specific in the application of the demands which they put on the Doha agenda. I imagine, like many here, that the United States is going to try and reinforce bilateralism for its own good, and I wonder how we Europeans are going to face the intensification of the trade war which threatens to ensue. On balance, this failure appears harmful, at least in the short term. In the public's eyes, however, it has had the effect of raising more than ever the question of adjusting the balance between the North and the South. This is the overall problem to which we must now try and find an answer. We need to see how to respond to it and with whom. This question is truly important because, for example, the interests of all the developing countries are not identical and their options with respect to the WTO do not yet appear to be very homogenous. In this context, which partner, which group can we count on in order to elaborate and engage in a strategy to relaunch the negotiations and reform the WTO? Elsewhere, and on another level, we have, of course, understood the Group of 21’s intention to combat external and internal public subsidies in the agricultural sector. Should we not fear that some countries, Commissioner, will seize the opportunity of the end of the peace clause to launch a legal attack on our CAP, in order to achieve their objectives without needing to honour any politically negotiated guarantees in return? However things stand after Cancún, the answers appear to be less obvious than the questions. –  Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, LEADER I was an outright success due, in particular, to the great flexibility of the administrative management between the Commission and the local operators. It is, I think, regrettable that the Commission could not make a similar assessment of LEADER II, regarding the quality of the projects, the quantity of appropriations spent and, most especially, the demotivation of some local operators in the face of the administrative and financial unwieldiness they encountered. I am pleased to see, however, that under LEADER+, new resources have been allocated to helping rural territories to develop their potential and to implement the objectives of local and sustainable development. I feel it is important to put special emphasis on trying out new ways to raise the profile of the natural and cultural heritage and to strengthen the economic environment, in order to promote employment. The time is now right, I think, to consider including the exchange of positive development experience in the scope of transnational cooperation. It is interesting to note that all rural areas may be eligible for LEADER II. Nonetheless, if the opportunity for Member States to determine the areas, within the scope of this initiative, remains available, then the Commission will have to ensure a certain focusing of resources and prioritise projects in the less prosperous areas. There must, of course, be transparency regarding the selection criteria for projects and local action groups. I also feel there are grounds for ensuring, in particular, that the financial channels of States or local authorities are not behind the delays in payment which may have caused some LAGs to become bankrupt under LEADER II. –  Madam President, Commissioner, the market organisation in fruit and vegetables was reformed in 1997 and, three years down the line, the results have not lived up to expectations. Based on reinforcing the economic power of producers, creating collective projects and contracting with public authorities within the framework of part-financed operational funds, the results of this reform have finally proved to be inadequate and disappointing. The reform has not brought the future we all hoped for at the outset because, in fact, as was highlighted by a previous speaker, the membership rate of the producer organisations has remained very low: less than 40%. Under these conditions, the producer organisations have been unable to have a real impact on controlling and promoting products in the fruit and vegetables sector. At the same time, although the EAGGF budget for this sector has been increasing steadily since 1997, it has nonetheless always been tightened during the accounting period because of the actual under-utilisation of appropriations due to the unsuitability of the rules of allocation. We are thus faced with a paradoxical situation where one of the most important sectors of European agriculture, which covers 20% of production units, employs a great deal of manpower in production and processing, and accounts for 16% of final agricultural production, is ultimately one of the sectors least taken into account by the common agricultural policy. Against this background, I naturally want to highlight the opportunity provided by the Commission proposal that we are debating this evening. But I want, above all, to congratulate Mr Jové Peres on the quality of his report, whose judicious proposals aim to improve even more significantly the results of this production channel for the countries of southern Europe, most notably by setting public support at 4.5% of the value of the marketed production and by increasing it in some cases to 6% in order to encourage producer organisations to pool their produce. Finally, I hope that the Council of Ministers will make a speedy decision in respect of this reform so that it can come into force in 2001 with the appropriate funding. –  Mr President, Commissioner, this morning, the President of the European Parliament received employees from the Strasbourg branch of Marks [amp] Spencer. They are seated in the gallery and I should like to welcome them. My fellow Members and I thought this morning that we would be able to reassure them that the dossier of the works councils and the information of workers was finally back under discussion. I hope that this evening’s debate clearly demonstrates our will to produce a piece of work that is consistent and which will lead to the directives in this field being updated. As you pointed out, Commissioner, we can no longer wait a new crisis to be announced to reassure ourselves that the legal instruments from which employees should benefit are at last appropriate, effective and provide for penalties in the event that European-level regulations are not respected. The Marks [amp] Spencer employees, like those from the other companies mentioned by Harlem Désir, demand, as European citizens, that Europe establishes frameworks for protection and for organising collective action, which as we all know is the only guarantee of individual rights in the field of employment law. They are demanding that these frameworks be established, recognised and protected and they are placing great hope in your words, Commissioner. The Commission and Parliament should also, however, demonstrate their political will by making any further development of economic union and of any new regulations conditional on the implementation of social provisions that stipulate new forms of regulation such as those that we are expecting today with the revision of the directives that has been announced. The workers of the European Union, Commissioner, must not suffer as a result of European integration. They must instead be the main beneficiaries of it. Respect for workers’ rights and the building of a social Europe are the pillars which, unless strengthened, could dash all our hopes for building democracy in our Union. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of international legally-binding instruments, established by the United Nations, to promote and protect the rights of disabled people, in other words to protect their dignity, is surely historic. You have said so yourself, Commissioner. The European Union must, therefore, encourage the adoption of these instruments and play a full part in them. Disabled people wish to have a free choice when it comes to their lifestyle. They wish to be as independent as possible. Like all other citizens, they wish to be involved at every stage of the decision-making process, not only insofar as they themselves are directly affected, but also through the recognition of all their fundamental rights. I think that a Community policy worthy of that name must be based on the existing measures, as is already the case. Moreover, it must promote legal measures at all levels, as underlined in the Lynne report. Nonetheless, we are aware that although legal measures are necessary, they are not sufficient in themselves. We must therefore work hard to raise the awareness of all sections of society, unions, management and teachers included. Everyone must be encouraged to take account of the specific situations related to disabilities. This heightened awareness is also needed if the directive is to be transposed. Transposition is currently incomplete. The second point to note is that our political ambitions need to be brought into line, and financial programmes should be meaningful and appropriate to current needs. I could mention the great needs in the fields of education and schooling for example. I refer both to special and mainstream education. The two are not contradictory. We know some disabled people are excluded, dependent and live in poverty. We must respond with action to develop independence, solidarity and integration. On this subject, the report before us today explores a whole series of approaches to be followed through all aspects of daily life. These areas are detailed in the report. I believe that the European Union and its Member States must truly stand by people with disabilities. It is not a question of charity. It is a question of rights. It is a question of the effective exercise of citizenship. This is the simple demand of disabled people. In this European Year of People with Disabilities, I think the recommendations of our rapporteur will contribute to the current action being taken to ensure all concerned are truly citizens, just as we in this House are. – Mr President, I would like to support Mr Posselt’s position in contesting the procedure that was used at the last moment, when a debate was scheduled on the subject. Whatever the subject and whatever the debate, insofar as a text has to be debated, I find it unacceptable that, simply for reasons of convenience, it should be decided at the last minute that there will be no debate. This was a question of convenience. Parliament should not establish agendas and organise the sitting according to the convenience of individuals. Second point: I think that this shows, once again, that the agenda for Thursday afternoons indicates a clear desire to devoid this sitting of meaning, which is quite unacceptable. All the reports to be dealt with on Thursday afternoon should be treated with equal dignity. As there are few reports, so-called less important reports, Parliament empties and the reports, particularly those dealing with human rights, and others, are not subject to any debate worthy of the name for the purpose of establishing positions. Of course, Mr van Hulten explained the problem very well: a constant desire to violate the Treaty and to prevent Strasbourg’s right as a seat of Parliament from being recognised, including on Monday afternoons. Again, we can clearly see the scheming that is taking place. –  Mr President, this is on a mistake in translation too, though not as important as the one just mentioned. In Amendment No 24, the words ‘ in the French version are a mistranslation. I trust this will not change the way we vote, but the French translation really must be checked. The words in the English version are the authentic ones. –  Mr President, I am totally opposed to what is happening here in Parliament. More and more often, over the past few part-sessions, steps have been taken to try to postpone votes scheduled for the five days of our part-session for reasons relating to personal problems, attendance, etc. I think our Parliament brings discredit upon itself by taking decisions of that kind. Mr President, this report has been the subject of negotiations right up to the last minute, and I should therefore be grateful if you would take account of this proposal for an oral amendment which, in the form in which I shall read it to you, should perhaps facilitate the adoption of the report at first reading. I shall read the amendment to you, and I shall call upon you to go on to ask the representative of the Commission what the latter’s position will be on this proposal. Here is the wording of the amendment as it has finally been negotiated: ‘Whereas the Commission could call upon those Member States in respect of which various insured persons are in danger of being prejudiced to come up with bilateral solutions and to suggest a transition period’.This amendment could be added as a recital. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question that was asked directly concerns the French situation and the answers that have been given make this quite clear. Although it is quite true that the French government has not yet begun, even now, to incorporate the European directive on liberalising the gas sector, it is nonetheless true that in practice, the conditions for exercising free competition have been met. It is not quite accurate to say today that the French gas market is not open to competition. The French government has opted to incorporate this directive in a measured and gradual way, which provides a greater opening for the major eligible clients, including the chemical, electrolysis or steel industries, for example. This position is no different, however, from that of the German government, which expressed its views at the Stockholm European Council and thereby sought to demonstrate its concern to develop an alternative in Europe to what here we would call the British blueprint for totally liberalising the energy sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make no mistake about this. What is at stake here is maintaining a public service in its role as a tool for social and territorial cohesion. We take the view that incorporating the European directive must, therefore, be an opportunity to produce a precise, updated and ambitious definition of what we mean by ‘public service’, which is a concept we have often debated in this House. I would also like to talk about energy policy, environmental protection, sustainable development, security, social and territorial solidarity and also about local development, about developing balance between geographical areas and about everyone’s right to energy. For all of these reasons, Commissioner, I ask the European Commission to quickly carry out a preliminary assessment, even before the second phase of liberalising the markets begins, so that we can preserve the European energy public service sector. I have also taken good note of the European lesson given on this matter by my British fellow Member. Where the dispossessed are concerned, however, Mr Purvis, those who would not benefit, as you say, from the gas sector being liberalised, I can reassure you today that, in my country, no one needs to suffer as a result of the situation in place there. Mr President, the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities has given a positive opinion on all the proposals made and we want to thank the rapporteur for agreeing to include in his report certain aspects of the gender dimension that were missing from the documents. That seems to us absolutely essential because progress remains totally inadequate despite an avowed willingness to promote equality between women and men all these years past. There are two points to be made. Firstly, the situation of women in the new Member States, which requires special attention. The second point is a regret, Mr President, Commissioner, that our recommendations on methodology have not been followed. If we are really to achieve the gender mainstreaming we want, however, we need genuine local appraisals of the situation of women. We need to have people who are working for gender equality sitting on the Structural Fund monitoring committees. Finally, all the specific actions deployed must incorporate these conditions so that women are involved in employment, in training, but also, Mr President, in decision-making. –  Mr President, Commissioner, we have just heard various positions on asbestos, which is a genuine public health problem, that are all based on the same observation but arrive at different conclusions, namely that asbestos poses a highly significant risk that must not be underestimated, that the data are not conclusive enough, and that we must certainly not risk making companies pay too many charges. This is not very responsible. The said conclusions, which underestimate a risk as significant as exposure to asbestos, are clearly to be given as much consideration as the grounds for applying the precautionary principle. The original Community legislation prioritised this protection within the context of the manufacture and processing of asbestos. This legislation has borne fruit, but a total ban on production has not yet been implemented in certain countries. Today, the question of the upkeep and maintenance of asbestos found by chance during building works requires a new framework for intervention and new legislation. This amendment was necessary but the goals of the directive thus amended are not yet truly equal to the seriousness of the problem. Mrs Damião’s report, which has genuinely tried to give workers greater protection, is absolutely remarkable. However, I would like to highlight two points. First, the problem of derogations: the proposal for a directive does not meet our expectations on this point, so we shall vote for Amendment No 21, which we consider to be a minimum; second, the question of responsibility: as shown by the latest judgments passed recently by the French courts, the wording of the text must allow the broadest possible responsibilities to be envisaged as the concepts of project managers or site managers are not specific enough to be completely effective. I would like to end with a clear warning to all those who do not wish to support all the minimum specifications proposed here, and who would therefore be willing to take responsibility for the significant health risks that would affect many workers in Europe. This underestimation of the risks of exposure to asbestos and failure to apply the precautionary principle, a procedure which may well be costly but is less costly than human life, could lead to considerable responsibilities for employers. –  Mr President, we have just voted in favour of a monthly plenary session reduced to four days. Four days, which means three days of work – is that serious, is it effective? No, of course not, and in any case those people who proposed it were also proposing to extend other sessions, even though they are aware that the extravagant use of time which we experience during those sessions, and the frustrations caused by the little time that Members have to express themselves, are not reasonable. The problem is, however, that, using the length of sessions as a pretext, it is the Strasbourg sitting that is being called into question. In my view, the basic problem, and I am determined to say it because I opposed this decision, lies not in any opposition between two cities, but rather in the opposition between two visions of Europe. There is the centralising vision, which wants to concentrate on a single place, Brussels, on the grounds of alleged rationality, of self-styled efficacy, a technocratic vision if you like, and then there is the decentralised, pluralist vision, the vision of a multi-dimensional Europe which has to be able to work from several centres of decision-making, thereby recognising and respecting the cultural diversities and identities of which it is composed. After enlargement, it will be not only Brussels, but also Strasbourg, Luxembourg, Frankfurt, and perhaps another location which will have to be established and promoted in order to meet the needs of the enlarged Europe which we are creating. That is why I opposed this reduction in the length of the plenary session. – Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to join the rapporteur in welcoming the prospect of implementing such a legislative provision, i.e. a position on the substance of the draft text. Indeed it was high time, and the European Commission had a political responsibility towards the people affected by this draft regulation, particularly since the Tampere European Council in October 1999, which had established, in its conclusions, the need to take swift measures to ensure that nationals from third countries living legally in the European Union are treated equally. What we welcome is the respect for equal treatment for residents of third countries with regard to Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 and the social equality resulting from it which, as has been said, provides quite substantial help towards integrating them but also encourages mobility. We are aware that this mobility, which we talk about so much, is much more difficult to put into practice than free movement of property and goods. I would like to stress, because it should be done, the important contribution that the residents of third countries make to the European Union, both in terms of boosting the economy and in terms of a rich cultural diversity and when we talk about them we are potentially talking about around 13 million people in the Union. That is not an insignificant number. However, like the rapporteur, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of the legal basis chosen by the European Commission following pressure from the Council. The European Parliament had the consultation procedure imposed on it, whereas the first proposal in 1997 was based on Article 51, now Article 42, which assumes codecision. That decision, the motivation for which seems to be more than questionable, as pointed out by the rapporteur, and therefore contestable, in fact places the European Parliament in a dilemma, that it can only solve by giving in, because that is exactly what is happening here. And unfortunately, it is not the first time that there has been an attempt to genuinely dismantle, as we could describe it, the prerogatives of our institution, which could be seen as a dangerous precedent. I fear that there is an underlying trend, and I think that our institution will have to be vigilant. The Commission, following the Council’s recommendations, knows full well that Parliament is going to choose the path of pragmatism, and that it will prefer to abandon what you, Madam, called, legal hair-splitting, in order not to endanger urgent Community legislation. We would not like to take responsibility for the failure of something that we desire. We do not wish to cross swords, but the question is there: in the future, should we penalise the citizens who are awaiting decisions from this House simply in order to ensure that Parliament’s position is respected? I think that this decision, the quite reasonable position of the European Parliament, should be used to help discussions on matters that will arise in the future or that we know are already being considered by the Council. –  Mr President, Article 12 proposes to call for a NEC (National Electoral Commission) meeting to be included on the agenda, as the representative of the Commission stated. I do not believe this would be appropriate. Since Laos is not a member of this Parliament, we could instead ask for the ASEAN assembly to be informed. This is not exactly ASEAN’s role, but at least Laos is a member of that body and we could take this matter to ASEAN, if the House agrees. Furthermore, the original text contains a mistake, Mr President. It talks about ‘the American journalist’. It should instead say ‘the American interpreter’, since that is what he was. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when President Wahid took office in Indonesia, Europeans that we are, we dared hope that the political climate in this country would improve under a president who defended human rights, was opposed to any form of sectarianism and supported the religious neutrality of the state. Despite a certain amount of progress, despite encouraging signs which there is too little time now to list, there is terrible violence in Indonesia today and the country is caught up in a spiral of insurgence and religious conflict. Today the European Parliament needs to reach a real consensus on its proposals which cuts across its political divides and groups. In fact, Mr President, Commissioner, violence in northern Sumatra, in the province of Aceh, in Papua and in the Moluccas, as my fellow member has just reminded us, and repeated massacres between religious communities, with calls for crusades on either side, from Muslim and Christian extremists alike, have been going on since 1999. These massacres and exactions are intolerable and Parliament has already denounced them. In the new resolution before us today, the European Union reiterates four main points. First, we must support the call by several authorities, especially the religious authorities, for the Secretary-General of the United Nations to come to the assistance of the Indonesian government in order to prevent further massacre. Secondly, we must welcome the arrest of the warlords openly calling for civil and religious war as evidence of the will of the Indonesian authorities to support a peace process in all the regions involved. We must support the efforts of these authorities. Thirdly, these initiatives only make sense if the economic situation in the archipelago really can be improved. Consequently, we need to intervene, including at a financial level, in order to help reconstruct a civil society which really respects the human rights, especially the religious rights, of the people of this country. Without political and financial aid on our part, there is a risk of the walls closing round the contradictions of the Indonesian experiment, which would probably put an end to the democratisation process which, all said and done, is still in its infancy. And fourthly, in these situations of extreme confusion, we need to get to the bottom of all these exactions. Only an independent inquiry by international human rights experts can do this. We call on the Indonesian government in our resolution to set up just such a committee of inquiry. –  Mr President, today we are discussing the situation of frontier workers, a nagging problem for the European Union, which has yet to find a satisfactory solution. Commissioner, Mr President, this situation prevents the people living and working on the borders of the various European Union countries fully experiencing the notion of European integration we champion, even though these are the people who should be the first to benefit from it. We have a habit in this House of lauding to the skies the issue of free movement of persons and, hence, of workers. Yet, while there are still obstacles to this, particularly in terms of tax and social security, there are also other matters to be considered. I believe that this issue is inconsistent with the principles of freedom and liberalism which we are considering, even though we seem able to find perfectly good solutions to problems when it relates to the free movement of capital and of goods. This represents a major obstacle to the principle of the free movement of persons and the principal of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality. In my opinion, this report is a real booster shot in relation to previous reports. We should at least ensure that there is no need to produce many more reports. We must remind the Member States of their responsibilities and ask them to undertake a thorough evaluation of policies which result in upholding systems which have an adverse affect on the situation of frontier workers. We agree with the general thrust of the report but the reincorporation of certain amendments waters down the ambitions which we should be adopting. Bilateral agreements, which, for example, relate to tax or social security, should be perfectly consistent and it is simply not a matter of taking varying provisions into account. Mr President, I would like to sum up by repeating that an accurate inventory should be proposed, listing situations giving rise to prejudice, or even discrimination but also one which would make it possible to clamp down on the fraud which occurs at present. We await the Council’s guidelines in this area. – Madam President, I am not about to enter into this debate, but I would just like to draw your attention and my fellow Members’ attention to another matter concerning this city, which is the extremely sensitive and worrying situation of a group of Hungarian gypsies who arrived in Strasbourg on 24 July, following persecution and racial discrimination in their own country, and who are seeking political asylum not only in our country, but also in other European Union countries. I do not wish to go into the details of the situation, but the essence of the problem is of very direct concern to us since, on the one hand it provides a very tangible and specific illustration of the problems involved in applying the Copenhagen criteria, which require urgent solutions, and on the other hand, the problems that certain countries that are candidates for membership of the European Union have in fulfilling the terms of the treaty. Then again, it also forces us to state, once again, that respect for minorities and human rights must be assessed in the same way and on a par with compliance with the economic criteria. So, Madam President, and I believe you are in complete agreement with this opinion, which is also in line with the opinions adopted by this House on these issues, I should like to see the matter referred to the joint parliamentary committee, in this case the EU-Hungary Joint Parliamentary Committee, at your request, as a matter of urgency. The group of 46 people who are here, Madam President, the Zamoli gypsies, are placing all their hope in the ability of this House to achieve progress in these matters. .  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank my colleague, Mrs Zrihen, for the excellent work she has done and, at the same time, to welcome the willingness of both the Council and the Commission to again consider industrial policy as one of the European Union’s major concerns. We should not forget that we are back here with the very foundations of European integration. It was the integration of the key industrial sectors of the time, coal and steel, that sealed our destiny as a Community. Since then, our industrial policy ambitions have, however, fallen short because only the commercial approach, that of competition and free trade, has prevailed, and I concede that this has brought benefits. One of the results, in the context of the far-reaching and inevitable industrial changes we are experiencing, has, however, been a complete failure to anticipate their effects, especially in terms of employment, and the waves of collective redundancies we are seeing everywhere in the Europe of the Fifteen bear witness to that, as has just been underlined. Tomorrow, it will affect the countries joining the European Union if we do not respond. Our declared ambitions for growth, more and better jobs and social cohesion, to quote the Lisbon objectives, need us to define a new industrial policy for the Union. That is crucial both for employment and for the Union’s social and territorial cohesion. Both sides of industry are willing to participate in defining those objectives as part of a genuine action plan, as the report recommends. I would like to stress two points on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, first of all the question of industrial competitiveness. This is central and cannot be reduced to cost cutting alone, as some seem to think. It is a composite idea that must take full account of the principles on which the European social model is based, namely all the social factors mentioned by Mrs Zrihen just now, and I am not going to repeat them. Those factors are quite different from objective costs. They are productive factors in their own right and must be given the same attention as the development of research and the application of new technologies. The second point is the need to promote an integrated industrial policy: major European projects, the promotion of technology platforms, etc. must go hand in hand with territorial approaches in terms of territorial balance and consistency with employment policies, whether it be in the framework of the open coordination method or of more binding procedures, as Mr Langen seems to want. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the lack of an industrial policy and therefore of the benefits that might be expected from it, is one of the reasons why many of our European fellow citizens are increasingly losing confidence in our institutions, including this one, since we are supposed to represent them in their most legitimate interests, the first of which is employment. . –  The Committee on Constitutional Affairs adopted an amendment seeking to add the following sentence to Article 289 of the EC Treaty: ‘In the case of the European Parliament, it shall decide, by an absolute majority of its members, on the location of its seat and of all its meetings’. I would like to point out that this issue is not on the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference. The IGC’s principal aim is to reform the institutions in preparation for enlargement. Furthermore, the issue of the European Parliament’s seat is covered by a Court of Justice ruling of 1 October 1997 and laid down in the protocol on the seat of the institutions annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam. That ought to be enough to ensure that this question is never raised again. To those who envisage building a Europe where the places of work and decision making are concentrated on one site only, I say that today, more than ever, we must build a democratic Europe, close to all its citizens. The very identity of Parliament and the powers it claims depend on that. As a French Socialist Member, I am therefore very much opposed to any proposal that would call into question the Strasbourg seat of the European Parliament. Madam President, that is why I have voted against this motion. –  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only endorse the comments made by Mrs Pack and Mr Swoboda, but I feel that the problems involving amendments to the schedule are also due to what I would call poor timetabling, as we never seem able to keep to the set agenda. We are continually having to postpone the discussion of reports. I think this is related to the fact that we are not managing our time well enough and that we should perhaps also change and reassess a number of ways in which the House operates. I believe, however, that cutting the part-session to four days is the main reason for all these departures from the agenda. If we cut the plenary part-session working time to three and a half days, the next thing we shall be down to two days. What is the point of the European Parliament? It is up to all the Members of the House to show how serious they are in their work, in line with the commitments they have made as Members of Parliament. This is the issue being raised again. () –  Madam President, I would like to give an explanation of our vote on the Menrad report, especially as regards Amendment No 31, on which the French Members of the Socialist Group and I myself abstained when it was rejected. I would like to specify that it was chiefly the radical nature of the wording which was behind this. For, in fact, while we may share the idea that aid and incentives for employment cannot be totally subjected to conditions of rigid technocratic controls which are in danger of excluding one disadvantaged section of job seekers from this aid, our vision encourages us to propose positive and constructive support, rather than supervision, in the procedures which must be implemented, which are still, as we know, difficult ones. The practices which have already been implemented for this type of support, especially for the most disadvantaged, show that it is not sufficient to allocate financial aid which would excuse us from having to do anything more. This is related, in the final analysis, to the good conscience of someone who gives money to charity. But real social support for the objectives to be set with regard to disadvantaged individuals in the context of the contract-based procedures is the only way for support and incentives for job-seeking to be effective, not only for access to work itself but also for the issue intimately associated with this, to wit, the lasting reintegration of individuals who have been totally undermined by the destructive processes of unemployment. It was also in this spirit that we previously submitted an amendment on positive approaches which, unfortunately, was not adopted. –  Commissioner, Mr President, I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the quality of his analysis of the Commission’s report. The analysis which he has carried out is very painstaking, and it really does enable us to ask ourselves about the relevance and, the effectiveness of this European Employment Service, both in terms of its strategy and objectives and in relation to the resources which have been used in order to achieve the objective of worker mobility and access to the European employment market. Like previous speakers, I should like to emphasise the value of the activity report. I should also like, however, to draw attention to its weakness, which lies in its lack of critical evaluation. However, the text presented by our rapporteur will supplement the report as far as this aspect is concerned. This report is timely, insofar as it highlights the role which EURES can and should play in the more general context of the European employment strategy, particularly if, as has been requested, the question of its having its formal legal basis in the Treaties is reviewed. EURES should be entirely integrated into the strategy, defined at Lisbon and reinforced at Stockholm, on the removal of obstacles to mobility within the labour market. It seems to me that there are three points which need emphasising. First there is the issue of mobility, which has already been mentioned. Everyone praises its merits, but I do not believe that it should be regarded as an end in itself, or as a risky gamble on the future, and still less as a choice that is made by default because there are no job opportunities at home. It must be possible for it to be a positive choice, and in that case mobility should not have to face all sorts of obstacles with regard to consistency between social security systems and taxation systems, double taxation, and the recognition of qualifications etc. Secondly, let us emphasise the importance of information on the existence of the European Employment Service, particularly in border regions. Communications must be strengthened, and addressed as a matter of priority to professional organisations, training centres and universities. The added value of the European dimension is not necessarily clear to see, and yet the fact that this Community strategy in favour of employment is taking the very practical form of providing openings in the employment market at European level is an excellent example of what can be achieved. Finally, I should like to end my speech by mentioning the question of enlargement. In view of the fears which have been expressed here and there in certain Member States of the Union, regarding the prospect of the massive and uncontrolled arrival of workers from the candidate countries, I believe that EURES should have a role to play here, by making it possible to anticipate difficulties, whether real or imagined, in particular by facilitating dialogue and by making it possible for the employment services of the countries concerned to work together with the various social partners involved in the major issue of job mobility in the Union as it is today and in the enlarged Union of tomorrow. –  Madam President, once again Parliament is led to, and strongly obliged to condemn the appalling situation of a woman named Amina Lawal, who has been sentenced to death by stoning in Nigeria for having exercised her freedom. What can I say, what can I add to all that has just been said by my fellow Members, except to reiterate my condemnation of the appalling situation of a woman which justifies as still necessary the fighting that takes place on international women’s days. This intolerable situation forces us to restate our radical opposition to the death penalty and forces us to remember that a court of justice, whether in Nigeria or in any State in the world, cannot be based on religious principles and deny all the principles relating to absolute respect for human rights and respect for human dignity. This, I am sad to say, echoes the obscurantism of the Middle Ages that our countries also experienced. We must condemn again and again this intolerable situation of a woman, confirming the importance we attach to the principle of secularity as the principle of major organisation in modern, democratic States. Madam President, Commissioner, the Nigerian Government should declare that the application of the Sharia by a regional court of justice is counter to the Constitution of its country. In this regard, we would remind it, in particular, that respect for human rights is a fundamental element of the agreements concluded with third countries. Apart from the situation of Amina Lawal in Nigeria, all those men and women in the world whose fundamental rights are denied expect the European Union to turn the resolutions that we adopt, sitting after sitting, in this House, into action. I also fully agree with the questions raised by Mrs Karamanou. Apart from adopting resolutions, Commissioner – although this is also addressed to the representatives of the Council – what are we actually doing? –  Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this matter of night flights and, more generally, noise pollution from aircraft taking off and landing at airport complexes is an extremely sensitive issue and embraces several areas of concern which require attention.  This sensitive issue takes us back to a recurring problem faced by all decision makers and politicians, whether they are local, national or, nowadays, European, and that is the problem of how to reconcile economic development with the need to safeguard the health and the standard of living of our fellow citizens. In effect, this embraces the three fields of technological, economic and regulatory considerations.  Although progress has unquestionably been made on the technological side, further progress is still essential in order to renew fleets of aircraft, particularly freight aircraft. The European Union must continue with its endeavours in the areas of research and technological development, equip itself with the means it needs to produce the standards envisaged, and give financial and technological support to all studies and programmes which make shared information available and which facilitate the modernisation of equipment with a view to limiting environmental disamenities.  However, at the same time, we have to take into account the economic aspect of the issue. Airport complexes are hives of intense economic activity and appeal; our intention to preserve jobs, reasserted in Lisbon, means that we do not have the right to avoid this issue. Any use of existing structures and the establishment of new infrastructures must conform to the legal instruments – the area-specific land use plans and national and regional development rules. Finally, in terms of regulation, in the absence of standardised European rules, strict harmonisation of air traffic control and restrictions must be achieved in order to prevent dumping within the Union, a phenomenon familiar to us, which is governed by decisions taken simply at local level. We cannot allow this to continue. The citizens are waiting for decisions to be implemented within the relatively near future. Mr President, Commissioner, I will join with those who have expressed their congratulations and thanks in this House. Allow me, though, also – on the subject of the Association Agreements that we are discussing today – to point out a more general desire voiced by the European Parliament to achieve stronger, more voluntarist and more incisive agreements between the different stakeholders of the European Union and the Andean Community or the countries of Central America. These agreements stress and emphasise the institutionalisation of political dialogue and the improvement of governance. Can we talk about governance without linking it to the issue of the global development strategy, designed, for example, to combat poverty? Can we talk about improving governance without talking about, and touching upon, the issue of economic and social integration? These are elements that are, I believe, missing from our approach. It is imperative that three points are raised. The first is the question of the role of dialogue between the different parliament members and with the national parliaments. Today, the members of parliament from the different countries represented are pointing out their weak position and their marginalisation in the current type of political system. This was mentioned in the report on our meeting in Puebla at the beginning of the month. As was done in our final memorandum, it is up to us to once again give them the role to which they are entitled and to also grant a role to the different actors representative of civil society, whether they be unions, companies or organised civil society. The second point concerns the issue of regional integration, which is fundamental. Can we, however, be happy with free trade agreements whilst ignoring the social aspects, especially the issues concerning fundamental rights; in other words, without talking about the actual situation when it comes to the populations’ well-being? Of course, we are faced with countries where poverty is extreme. That is what we are all saying. We should, however, have the political courage to know exactly what we are talking about when we talk about poverty. The poverty of the populations is extreme, but it is on the issue of unfair distribution of wealth that we must speak out and help our parliamentary colleagues to act … –  Mr President, Commissioner, by this stage of the debate many things have been said. This allows us to take up some of the ideas again by way of a conclusion.  This resolution on restructuring in industry has arisen today because one company, Michelin, decided to make 7,500 people redundant. Of course the situation is tragic, but it is interesting to note today that we are able to talk about restructuring in industry not from a purely economic point of view, but raising the human issues that it involves. I think that it is quite right to link this resolution to Michelin’s situation. To axe 7,500 jobs today, when neither a company’s financial or industrial output allow us to attribute these redundancies to some kind of crisis, is quite unacceptable from the legal point of view alone. From the human point of view, this situation is not only unacceptable; it is indecent and immoral. The fact that a simple PR exercise allows a company’s share value to rise by 12% whilst no extra value has been created, no extra tyre has been manufactured or sold, giving the impression that huge sums of money could simply appear spontaneously as a result of the financial markets alone, shows utter contempt for human labour. While shareholders are selling their stock and making a gain, men and women are finding out that they will be the only ones to suffer from the situation. This is the heavy price that European employees must pay so that a few investors can maximise their return. In the measures that have been proposed, Commissioner, you talked about social costs and the way we should take them into account in the long term. It is obviously essential, as a matter of urgency, that this measure is complemented by strengthening the directives on collective redundancies and European Company statutes. It is also essential to envisage new forms of social redistribution, financed by the shareholders of prosperous companies that make employees redundant with the sole aim of increasing the price of their shares. Finally we are waiting for an explanation which will enable us to find out if we will be able to vote on this compromise resolution, omitting the word Michelin. In any case, this debate has clearly shown the political division in this House which does not disappear even in supposedly “compromise” resolutions. –  Mr President, I have one minute and three points to make. Firstly, I should like to thank Mrs van Lancker on the work she has done in producing this excellent report. As for my second point, I wish to restate my Group’s fundamental convictions. The working areas opened up in the social agenda must be given a coherent, and certainly conciliatory, legal framework: The policy of convergence and the policies of coordination which have been initiated, and also supported by legislative measures, when necessary, which in turn should be reinforced by genuinely stringent monitoring methods. As for my third point, there are some rights that have simply been glossed over from the viewpoint of a social Europe: the right to a minimum income, the information and consultation of employees, the European collective agreement. These are points which, we know, are contested by the conservatives in Europe, but to which we, in our Group, attach great importance. Minister, Commissioner, we must continue to adopt an ambitious approach on these issues. I hope, Minister, that in Nice the French Presidency will succeed in pushing through an ambitious social agenda, since embarking on the construction of a social Europe is still the great hope of all our fellow citizens. –  Mr President, as Mr Morillon has just reminded us, Madagascar is in dire economic and political straits. Unbelievable poverty, inter-clan fighting and ethnic tensions, compounded by corruption at all levels in regions entertaining vague notions of autonomy and partition are its overriding features. The political situation following the first round of presidential elections in Madagascar has exacerbated the breakdown in social cohesion and now looks set to plunge the entire country into total isolation, just like the capital. Serious internal unrest with dramatic human consequences and galloping recession has deprived the people of Madagascar of any real chance of choosing a president. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think there are three points which need to be highlighted in the resolution before Parliament today. The first is political support for the efforts of the OAU. In fact, it is only by supporting all the initiatives being taken by the Organisation for African Unity, calling on the leaders to find a peaceful solution to the conflict, that we shall reach a settlement. I should add, as our motion states, that a settlement will only come about if no other state unilaterally recognises the legitimacy of either leader. We have seen what happens in such cases in other regions of the world. It is not therefore up to the European Union to decide between the corruption and nepotism of the one and the self-proclamation – unacceptable in the eyes of international law – of the other. However, it is our duty to express our full and total support for the decisions taken in the Dakar agreement on 18 April 2002 with a view to setting up a reconciliation government and, more importantly, making provision for fresh consultations, this time, undeniably, with the Madagascan people. The only way to normalise democratic relations, let us not forget, is to put a stop to all forms of violence and violations of human rights. The second important point is that we need to guarantee emergency humanitarian aid in order to alleviate the awful conditions under which the people have been living for several months now. Finally, the third point I want to make is that it is also our duty and our responsibility to take any financial or political action needed to encourage the resumption of economic and social life, as this is the only guarantee of development in Madagascar which can respond to the real needs of its people. So we must keep our aid and cooperation programmes in place. I think, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a role to which the European Union is eminently suited. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Peijs, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin by thanking Mrs Sanders-ten Holte for the work she has done and I welcome the fruitful cooperation that has developed between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, the outcome of which is the text that has just been presented to us, a text which, I hope, will make a real contribution towards promoting the high quality education throughout Europe we aspire to. On behalf of my committee, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would particularly like to stress the importance of improving the quality of teaching in schools and vocational training, and seeking to implement a system for exchanging good practice and methodological tools. These are ways of achieving social cohesion and reducing unemployment. High quality education systems must strive to achieve objectives, such as to get people into the labour market, to reduce the number of young people leaving school early, our ability to provide life-long learning and to give people access to the new technologies. I must highlight two points in this quality evaluation as specified in the common position. First of all, this process makes a clear distinction between administrative evaluation and the innovative procedures that we would like to see and that we would like to implement and in which, as has been said, all stakeholders must take part. The second point which I would like to highlight has perhaps not been fully taken on board, as we would have wished. What we do not want to do is to turn the quality evaluation process into a factor for establishing a hierarchy, classification or league table of schools. On the contrary, this form of evaluation should allow each establishment, however different in terms of its students or the methods or resources used, to meet all the risks of dropping out, to improve the intrinsic quality of education for everyone and to accept all pupils of all abilities by offering education which is tailored to the students’ requirements and by allowing everyone to discover their own personal development needs. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, postal services, just like any European public service, contribute to the social cohesion of Community territory under the terms of Article 16 of the Treaty of Amsterdam. By equalising tariffs, i.e. treating citizens and economic operators on a basis of strict equality with regard to the cost of the service, by meeting the obligation to provide a universal service, while complying with the requirement for quality of service, postal services reflect the concern which we must have to ensure equality between different regions and the people resident in them. They also play a major role in maintaining links between people. As has been pointed out here on many occasions, is the postman not in fact the last point of contact in depopulated districts or divided communities, whether these are areas that are isolated geographically or the problem districts in our towns and cities? Let me cite the example of the initiative of the French postal service, which decided, for instance, to make interpreters and writers available to the public in post offices in problem urban areas. Without even mentioning the jobs in related sectors, European public postal services today employ one and a half million operatives whose futures are clearly threatened by the spectre of radical, untrammelled liberalisation. The European Parliament was confident of reconciling openness to competition with the obligation to provide a universal service in a manner which safeguards jobs. We may congratulate ourselves on this, but we intend that this should continue and this is the reason why one can only deplore the fact that the European Parliament is today being excluded from the main decision-making process which will determine the fate of the postal sector in Europe. Indeed it is regrettable that to date – as the resolution we are debating points out – the Commission has not taken account of the resolution of 14 January 1999. That resolution called for the European Parliament to be involved in drawing up the planned measures and urged that the reliability of impact studies regarding liberalisation should be improved. These impact studies are necessary in order to assess the effects of any untrammelled liberalisation, not just on the economic organisation of the market, but also in terms of its human and social aspects. The delays in the Commission’s work will inevitably have a knock-on effect on the proposed timetable and the deadline of 2003 must certainly be called into question.  By defining a sector reserved for public postal services, on the basis of weight and price limits, the postal service directive would clear the way for controlled liberalisation in phases. The sudden reduction of these limits poses a threat to the balance between the obligation to provide a public service and economic viability for postal services. Against a background of globalisation, where the rationale of profitability and profit is coming increasingly into conflict with the wish to achieve both a balance between regions and social cohesion, we must here, as a matter of urgency, reiterate our commitment to European public service, whether it be, today, the postal service or, tomorrow, the rail service or, the day after that, the health service. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this week is an important week as far as the debates in this House are concerned. Yesterday, we discussed the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and today, in discussing Community initiatives, we are debating the matter of combating discrimination. We are thereby boosting the positions of the European Union regarding the practical situations experienced by European nationals in connection with discrimination and equal treatment. I should like, straight away, to emphasise the importance of these two texts: on the one hand, the directive, acting as it does on the state of the law and, on the other hand, the action programme, because it makes it possible to implement effectively new practices intended for adoption on a widespread basis. In this regard, I cannot accept the muddle that some parties are making of the necessary anti-discrimination measures, equal treatment and the mention of other cases of prohibition. I do not think we can mix things up in this way. The proposal for a directive discussed in the Mann report is a key one, and I should like to discuss it briefly. It seeks to boost the principle of equal treatment at the same time as reducing the number of opportunities for exemptions, which we think excessive. Let me return to the subject of the exemption for religion. I should like to express our reservations on this difficult issue and restate our commitment to the principle of secularism, especially in the context of the fight against discrimination. This seems fundamental to us, particularly after incorporating the questions of activities in the social or health fields. The desire for action is a matter of jurisdiction, not religious belief. One last word on the discussion which may ensue on the need to maintain statistics on the subject. They are essential. Let us beware, nonetheless, lest these statistics be used against the men and women they concern. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I think we can congratulate ourselves on having brought a question before this House today which has been pending for far too long. It is impossible not to be surprised at this inability to resolve a precarious situation which affects the parliamentary assistants, people who assist us on a daily basis, whilst we are competent to legislate on certain aspects of the conditions of life and work of all the citizens of the fifteen Member States? It is in fact a question of finding solutions to crucial and fundamental issues concerning social protection, the employment statute, occupational accidents and all the issues of social cover with which we are so familiar, so that we can deal with them in relation to all the workers in the fifteen Member States. It is also a question of making an effort to clarify the definition of their working conditions, which, I admit, are rather the preserve of internal meetings. This issue has been raised over a very long period of time by our group and, as we have just been reminded, by other groups as well. During the previous legislative period of the European Parliament, proposals to formalise the statute came up against the reluctance of the Council to turn assistants into officials and to include the tax dimension of the problem in the equation. I think that today, however, we should be clear about what our objectives are. These demands are now no longer written in this way in the agenda. It is clear that we do not want to turn our assistants into Community officials, just as it would be out of place to want to link the issue of the assistants’ statute to that of Members of Parliament. Why, as was expressed so well by Mr Rocard, do you vie with each other to complicate an issue where the stakes are so clear and so legitimate, and which may find solutions in procedures that are perfectly ordinary, accessible and simple? The real issue today is to see how the Commission is going to follow up the work, which it asked an expert to carry out on this matter. It is true that the recent developments introduced by the Bureau of the European Parliament – the provision of contracts in the prescribed form and documents testifying to membership of a social security system and of an occupation accident insurance scheme – are good decisions, but the matter does not end there. It would be extremely important, for instance, to be able to check the information which is gathered. However, the proposal put forward to regard our assistants as genuine cross-border workers so that they can consequently have recourse to Regulation No 1408/71, to which we just have to add a subparagraph in order to cover them, seems entirely appropriate. Commissioner, our assistants expect the Commission to take the initiative. The Belgian Presidency would be doing itself credit by bringing this affair to a successful conclusion. However, Commissioner, you have just told us that proposals will be forthcoming before the summer. Thank you. We look forward to them. We thank you above all on behalf of all the assistants who work in this House. –  Mr President, Commissioner, the right to information is a fundamental right and freedom, which guarantees the continuation and the strengthening of peace and democracy in the world. Once again, these rights have been flouted and today we are forced to condemn the situation in Laos. Since 5 June, two journalists, one French and the other Belgian, have been imprisoned, together with their guides, in Vientiane in Laos. They were arrested in the Xieng Khuang province whilst reporting on the situation of the Hmong minority. After a trial that bordered on the farcical, on 30 June, Thierry Falise and Vincent Reynaud were sentenced to 15 years in prison for ‘obstructing an official in the performance of his duties’, as the case against them described it. This fallacious charge on the one hand and the sentence handed down, on the other, contravene the provisions of the Laotian criminal code. Thierry Falise and Vincent Reynaud were in fact convicted simply for carrying out their work as journalists and cameramen, filming a group of mountain people who have been hounded for years by an authoritarian regime that flouts every principle of democracy. The resolution that we propose Parliament should adopt and which we urge its President to convey to the Laotian authorities and to all member countries of ASEAN calls first for the immediate release of the two journalists and their guides; secondly, for international conventions to be applied, including the convention adopted by French-speaking countries in the Bamako declaration, which Laos has ratified, in order to protect the rights of journalists, particularly those reporting in conflict zones. Thirdly, the resolution calls for the immediate suspension of all policies of persecution and repression towards the Hmong people and other minorities in Laos; and fourthly, for all economic cooperation between the EU and Laos to be reviewed, as soon as possible and with the European Parliament being kept informed, as provided for in the agreements to which our resolution refers. I believe, Mr President, and I wish to state, on behalf of my entire group, that we cannot continue to assist and maintain relations with countries which, in full view of the whole world, breach human rights. It is one of our responsibilities as the European Parliament to condemn things that are totally unacceptable and to say so relentlessly. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following the conclusions of the Lisbon Council, the various reports voted upon here in Parliament dealing with employment have consistently highlighted the need to strike a balance between quantitative and qualitative development of employment, or between economic development and social development. The strategy implemented has made genuine progress possible, and, as has been stated, Commissioner, we fully support the proposals regarding the way in which you plan to follow up this work. Today, however, in a difficult context, a context of waves of company restructuring and mass redundancies that are increasing instability on the job market, the European Parliament must once again send out a strong, clear signal. Mr Mann’s own-initiative report, however, takes the opposite view to the message we should be sending, presenting to us an exclusively liberal creed, and the work carried out by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in order to balance the text is in danger of being completely nullified by the amendments reintroduced in plenary. Mr Mann, what we need today is not just increased flexibility: we also need a policy that is both durable and flexible. We do not want second-class jobs or deskilled casual work, as you are proposing. We must focus on training and qualifications, and support the most vulnerable categories, which are women, young people and the elderly. Nor do we want a policy that insists on seeing fiscal pressure as the cause of all evils in this matter. Nor do we want deregulation, uncontrolled opening up of the service trade markets, sacrificing all the social acquis on the altar of free competition. If the report were to be amended in the way you are proposing in plenary, we would have to oppose it. I shall end, Mr President, by saying that, in promoting employment strategy and social policy in the European Union, which is the title of the report, we cannot overlook the principles of solidarity and social cohesion, which are guarantees of the prosperity of our economies. –  Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Gebhardt, Mr De Rossa, today, this debate on a European Cooperative Society is focusing somewhat on the legal base chosen to reintroduce this report. This legal base has been challenged in all the work of the Parliamentary committees as it arises essentially from Amendment No 1, which was specifically proposed for the text of the regulation. This situation means that, once again, the Members are facing an impossible choice: whether to recognise the rights of this House in terms of codecision or to adopt a Statute which has been awaited for 30 years by the social economy sector. By refusing the European Parliament codecision in this area, the unfortunate precedent of the limited company is perpetuated and this situation could be repeated when we address the statute for friendly societies or European associations. Is the Council going to continue to ignore Parliament’s position? As regards the first point, my fellow Members have amply elaborated on the grounds for challenging the legal base and they have put forward strong arguments. At the same time, however, and despite everything, it is just as important that we achieve a text on the Statute for a Cooperative Society at last. Although the draft that has been submitted to us represents a backwards step in some respects in relation to the 1993 text, and even though there has been no real debate on the content, I am not sure we need to take the risk of delaying the implementation of a draft which has known many ups and downs. There are many arguments in favour of adopting this text without a delay. I shall cite just a few. The draft has the agreement of representatives of the cooperative sector as a whole, as we have heard. The number of cooperatives concerned in Europe is anything but negligible. Out of 200 000 companies – Commissioner, my figures are slightly higher than yours – in this European cooperative sector representing over 3 million jobs, between 10 and 12% operate outside the local area and their activities concern every sector of economic life. These cooperatives must be able to extend their activities to European level and to be able to do so within a certain legal framework, which safeguards their specific nature, both in terms of the primacy of the individual and the objects of the undertaking on capital, and in terms of participation in the general interest and social cohesion. Lastly – and I feel this is an important point – we should allow an economic sector built on the original legal base, which has proven itself in terms of local development, to be able to develop, in particular in countries currently experiencing a sometimes painful economic transition towards the market economy. This is the case of the future Members of our Union. Recognition of the diverse forms of company and the social economy constitutes one response to the liberal globalisation that is being challenged today and is an ingredient of the European social model that we wish to defend. I believe, Commissioner, that we share this concern. –  Mr President, Commissioner, this own-initiative report, which we should welcome, concerning the specific subject of illiteracy sheds light on two particular approaches recently implemented by the European Union in adopting the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights on the one hand and the action programme combating social exclusion on the other. As Marie-Thérèse Hermange, our rapporteur, reminded us, the right of each individual to know how to read, write and count is the practical basis that enables these individuals to exercise their rights as citizens. This right must be guaranteed by practical measures wherever the scourge of illiteracy is present; it is therefore enlightening to be reminded of the figures. In practical terms, I believe it must be possible to develop these actions in two directions. We need to make the connection between illiteracy and unemployment, on the one hand – for example there are the proposed actions targeting illiteracy in the workplace – in order to ensure the coherent implementation of the decisions made in Lisbon, and between illiteracy and social inclusion on the other. We should devise actions for social inclusion that are independent of the professional situation of the people concerned, and I am thinking of women in particular. I believe the case of migrant women must be considered in this respect. The report also calls for the creation of a monitoring centre, and I think it is realistic to plan this within an existing tool, Cedefop, since compatible indicators and benchmarks between Member States are the basis of any coherent Community policy. In conclusion, I believe that this report must be seen as a tool to facilitate the drawing-up of a measure involving local, national and Community levels, each with their own specific responsibilities. Today, the handling of these issues requires Community initiatives and the impetus to encourage the Member States to make decisions that are essential for their people. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we are all well aware, I believe that we are about to take a decisive step along the path to adopting a general framework on the information and consultation rights of workers. We can only welcome this and we must congratulate Mrs Ghilardotti, the rapporteur, who has spared no effort in ensuring that today we have reached a position that we are defending. It has been almost three years since the draft directive was published, and during this time, we in this House have had to condemn many situations. There have been site closures, redundancies and relocations, without any prior information being given by the companies to the employees concerned. Of course, this directive is far from ideal – it does not provide a ban on redundancies – but it illustrates the determination to make up for these shortcomings, firstly, in national legislation, but also to correct the occasionally fragmented aspects of Community law that we have already passed, which it also supplements. These three years of debate have resulted in a text that is now balanced and realistic. This report is not intransigent, nor is it extremist, and I believe that we should mention the efforts on the part of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the various groups, in negotiating with the Council, to iron out specific differences of opinion. The European Parliament and the Council are co-legislators and we do not have to blindly support any directive, Mr Pronk. We have to support positions, namely those of Parliament. I have three points to make; the first relates to confidentiality of specific information. We have returned to the common position of the Council to acknowledge that there actually are objective situations and contradictions with stock market law, for example, which must be considered and that this confidentiality, in some well-defined cases, can be upheld. My second point relates to sanctions. There is no law without sanctions, and I believe that what is laid down – I am about to finish, Mr President – where there has been a serious breach is an absolute minimum. As for transition periods, well, fundamental social rights must simply be applied. Yet, we can no longer defer the enforcement of these rights. Madam President, I wish to open my speech by joining others in conveying my deepest sympathy to you, Commissioner, in light of what is happening in your country.  Ladies and gentlemen, this report, which concerns the updating of Regulation No 1408/71 and of the Regulation which lays down implementing procedures for the former regulation is, therefore, the subject of debate in our Parliament today. As has just been pointed out, the purpose of the amendments proposed to us is, on the one hand, to incorporate into the document changes that have appeared in the various social security schemes and, on the other hand, to perform the essential task of incorporating the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Communities when the latter has had to give a ruling upon these topics.  It should be remembered that the issue of the updating or general modernisation of the Regulation is currently being debated but also that, on many occasions, our Parliament has asked for a general overhaul of the regulations coordinating social security schemes. The proposal that we have to consider today is basically aimed at updating the list of what are termed non-exportable benefits, contained in Annex IIa of the aforesaid Regulation.  The decisions of the Court of Justice have made it possible to single out two essential characteristics which these benefits must exhibit in order to be considered as non-exportable and, therefore, to enjoy derogations from the general principle of the exportability of social benefits: their special character in the Member State concerned; the fact that the beneficiary does not contribute to them, in other words that they are funded from, and on the basis of, general taxation in the Member State concerned; and, finally – and as a supplementary factor – the fact that the amount is in line with the minimum necessary income required to live in the economic environment of the country granting the benefits.  In practical terms, non-exportable benefits may be talked of in the case of certain additional resources paid to elderly people or designed to offset transport costs or even in the case of benefits linked to disability. We can only note that, when they are not exportable, similar versions of all these benefits exist, in general, in the other Member States and are, therefore, able then to be collected.  What is the meaning of this updating? It seems to us that the import of the proposal being put to us is very positive. Firstly, it effectively enables the exceptions to this general principle of exportability to be limited through the strict application of the ‘special’ and ‘non-contributory’ criteria. Once systems predicated upon exceptions are left behind, the conditions are always more favourable for everyone concerned.  Secondly, this proposal puts an end to the divergent interpretations of the various national administrations and so ensures legal security for employees induced to move within the European Union. It brings transparency and greater clarity to an area which, as we know, is eminently complex, bordering, as it does, upon both what appear to be social security benefits in the very strict sense of the term and social action, which is a non-compulsory feature put in place by the Member States. It is at this level that the debate must take place and at which all the interpretations are possible.  Thirdly, it must be possible for this proposal to be adopted without delay in order to avoid further legal disputes in this area that is very sensitive for the citizens of the European Union. As we know, this issue does, at a social level, sometimes alienate people from the European Union. In their eyes, the EU seems not to respond as quickly as it should to putting everyone on the same footing. Finally, the proposal is a factor that facilitates and promotes the advances expected in the current general overhaul of Regulation No 1408/71. Nonetheless, we have to express a reservation regarding the specific situation of one of the Member States which has not so much seen a benefit removed as a formerly exportable benefit reintroduced in the non-exportable category. This situation should, we think, give rise to a more thoroughgoing study of the citizens concerned. There do not appear to be very many of them, but the simple fact that a number of them are likely to suffer would in our view seem to require that, when cases come to light, thought be given to having a transitional period and a series of bilateral negotiations. Madam President, when, in a moment, we vote, I shall consequently have to table an oral amendment in the form of a supplementary recital along the same lines as the amendments that have been tabled by my fellow MEPs and that the Commission tells us it cannot follow up. This was also the position adopted within the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. This oral amendment should enable us to move forward. I shall conclude by pointing out that, in this scenario, we are faced with delicately balanced situations, linked to the procedure used. It is this open method of coordination that is delicate. We definitely must preserve the gains it affords in cases such as this. That is why I hope that this report is adopted. Madam President, like the previous speaker, we must congratulate not only Mrs Lambert, the rapporteur, for the work she has carried out, but also, Commissioner, your staff for their work and for the coordination which has developed between the Parliamentary committee and the Commission which has led to the streamlining and updating of a text that concerns one of the fundamental aspects of this European Union of ours, which is the freedom of movement – as you yourself said – not only of workers, but of all Europe’s citizens. This text has been streamlined and updated and takes account of the rulings of the Court of Justice, but also of the current realities of employment and of certain types of self-employed workers. In my opinion, we must welcome the text and call for this work to be concluded before the end of the year, before enlargement takes place, because this will make progress easier to achieve. In the little speaking time left to me, I should like to focus on one issue: the situation of frontier workers. These are truly Europeans par excellence; it is they who suffer as a result of differences in legislation and who least understand the steps forward Europe is taking, and yet they are the ones for whom everything possible should be done, to enable them to perform their jobs across borders. As has already been said, the progress that has been made is clear to see. I wish, however, to emphasise the need to research new forms of working together, new forms of institutional cooperation between Member States, when problems in implementing these regulations persist, particularly in cases where there are differences in their implementation. There are many such differences and there are also many delays in harmonising these. With regard to this fundamental issue, proposals have been tabled in Amendments Nos 51 and 52, on which we will vote tomorrow. I believe that this issue of coordination will require ongoing effort and fine-tuning. Today, coordination is necessary in that responsibility in these fields falls to the Member States. This does not mean, however, that we should not raise the necessary issue of harmonisation in order to protect the European social model. – (FR)Madam President, with regard to the Minutes of yesterday"s sitting, I would like to provide all the Members with some information relating to the introductory intervention of our Irish colleague yesterday morning. I would like to make it known to all the Members that the issues concerning the means of access, for people with reduced mobility, from the public car parks to all the buildings, is entirely effective. I tested it myself this morning, using all the paths provided and signposted by means of all the symbols normally used for this sort of information. I want to point this out so that we can stop the circulation of inaccurate facts. Everything is in order so that people with reduced mobility may have effective access to the buildings. I believe that what still needs to be resolved is the problem of the chamber itself. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank my colleague, the rapporteur, Mr Schmid, and congratulate him on the guidelines he has proposed in his report, with which we largely agree. In fact, like many of my fellow Members, I consider that the European employment strategy we have known over the past five years has, to varying degrees, perhaps, depending on the regions, been effective and has benefited the citizens of Europe. However, I believe the time has now come to review its structure and also to propose a new strategy that takes full account of the coordination of macro-economic, social and employment policies. From this perspective, we have just reviewed every aspect of European employment strategy during the last five years and proposals have been made regarding the guidelines to follow. I would like to focus on three points. The first point concerns the necessary relationship between the European employment strategy and national employment plans and in this respect, I believe it is a question of the relationship with citizens and the understanding citizens may have of European strategies that affect them. In actual fact, this relationship takes place through the intermediary of the national parliaments, both in giving their consent and in implementing the European guidelines. In this regard, I believe the situation to be something of a paradox. The employment situation is deteriorating. The European Union’s efforts to set up employment strategies should target people in difficulty. However, those who should be able to benefit from the actions are in fact the most disillusioned, the most critical and those who least understand our positions and the proposals we are making. I therefore think that if we try to implement a coherent strategy, which fully involves the national parliaments by allowing them to debate national employment plans and make them their own, we will contribute to democratising European procedures, in particular with regard to the European employment strategy, and legitimise our actions in the eyes of the European citizens. The second point – on which, I believe, everyone agrees – is that, in order to be effective, the European employment policy should really be an integral part, in socio-economic terms, of European policies. The objectives of full employment, education, lifelong learning, all of which have been cited, are in fact parallel objectives which largely fall outside the scope of the guidelines for each sector alone. Lastly, in conclusion, I think we need to review the subject of the social instruments used by Europe. In fact, even if we reach an agreement on the objectives to be achieved, we still need to provide ourselves with suitable instruments with which to implement them. On this subject, I believe we must reconsider using the codecision procedure and majority decision-making with regard to employment policy. Although the open coordination method has proved useful, I believe it must be used to complement the other legislative instruments, as was originally intended. Madam President, Commissioner, like other Members, I am delighted this evening to see how much progress has been made on the task of modernising Regulation No 1408/71 on social security, which obviously improves the position of EU nationals who have to travel across borders, essentially in the context of their work. This is something that we can be pleased about, even though I do share the reservations which other Members have expressed. This is a technical and complex issue. Dealing with it has required a great deal of time, and the task is not finished even now. We have just been reminded that the annexes are empty, and we still have some work ahead of us. However, I should like to thank, also on behalf of my colleague, first of all, the rapporteur, Mrs Lambert, for her perseverance and determination. I should also like to pay tribute to all those who have assisted with this work, whether in the Commission or in the Council. Although, overall, we can feel satisfied, we ought nonetheless to admit that margins for improvement are both possible and necessary on this subject. I should like to concentrate on the issue of the tools at our disposal for dealing with this matter. We need to go beyond the reservations and attitudes of those Member States who seek to preserve prerogatives which, in this context, look very much like protectionism. I hope that the coordination principle, which basically restricts and constrains us, and does not allow us to respond to the questions put by Members, will soon give way to real harmonisation on social protection, which is one of the essential components of the European social model. I am convinced, Madam President, that the demand expressed by European citizens for a real social Europe, which we shall all be hearing a lot about in the near future, requires significant institutional change. The progress which has been made is to be welcomed. It is considerable, but it is still modest in comparison with what is at stake. Finally, and above all, it must not be allowed to mask the existing disparity, which is to be condemned, between the very effective procedures which we have at our disposal with regard to economic matters, and the much weaker procedures which are used in the social sphere. Social convergence criteria are essential in order to deal correctly with the subject of social protection linked to mobility in Europe, a subject which, to the citizens of Europe, forms the basis of the credibility of European integration. –  Mr President, Commissioner, first of all let me thank Mrs Read for this report and point out at once that I will simply concentrate on the social aspects which, in our view, deserve a closer look. With the Lisbon Summit coming up in a few days, I think the European Parliament needs to send out a clear signal to the Member State governments that Europe’s entry into the digital age, and therefore into a new economic area with very considerable potential, must not be at the price of social cohesion. The need for solid social foundations and for consideration of the people’s real needs are, in my view, the  of the success of the information society, as we understand it in Europe, i.e. a society that cannot be built only on market forces. We must take the utmost care to ensure that all sectors of society benefit from the information society and that we do not create a society in which social inclusion or exclusion depend on access to the new technologies and the use of their potential. I think three points need to be noted, as well as the risks and concerns to which they give rise. The first relates to the users and the risk of a gap emerging between the various victims of social exclusion. The cost of Internet access, the sidelining of entire sectors of society (the young unemployed, housewives, the elderly) and the shortcomings in education and vocational training are serious obstacles to an information society meant to benefit everyone. The second relates to the individuals working in this sector; given the flexibility that is a feature of the sector, organisational structures must be set up for the employees, together with guarantees of their rights, in relation to social security, pensions or the necessary job-security provisions. My third and last point relates to the question of public service and improving the democratic systems to develop procedures… . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission communication has – as you pointed out, Mr President – defined a strategy for promoting core labour standards in the context of globalisation. So, what does this strategy involve? First of all, let us reiterate that the core standards in question are those set out in the ILO’s Declaration of 1998, identified by the Copenhagen Summit and included in eight of the ILO conventions. They are the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Although the International Labour Organisation, the ILO, is indeed the body competent to define and negotiate the core labour standards, the European Council of October 1999 reiterated that the Union should strongly support the protection of core labour rights. The role of the European Union in the WTO has thus been particularly highlighted. We must, however, note that the difficulties – indeed the impossibility of applying these rather basic rights at world level – are very real. At the same time, throughout the world, people are condemning a type of economic development that does not go hand in hand with social development and the communication itself notes that ‘market governance has developed more quickly than social governance’. Are we going to leave it at that? First of all, I would like to welcome the communication as well as the proposals that it makes and point out the benefit and timeliness of launching a debate within our institutions on the relationship between globalisation, labour law and social governance. The communication also notes that, although market mechanisms and trade liberalisation are essential for development, they alone cannot guarantee development for everyone on this planet. With regard to core labour standards, this type of globalisation must involve implementing public regulations that are as effective as those implemented for the markets. The WTO cannot ignore these standards, neither can it be the only body that imposes global regulations. Nor can it be the organisation that dominates all the other institutions. With these considerations in mind, we are submitting to you an opinion which is intended to supplement the Commission’s proposals. The opinion is based on some crucial ideas that are developed in the report. I would like to mention three points which, in my view, are fundamental. The first point is the importance of defining and clarifying relations between the European Union, the ILO and the WTO. The major problem of applying core labour standards at world level highlights the lack of coherence, on the one hand, between the approaches of the various institutions, and, on the other hand, the weakness of world governance, its architecture, which is unsuited to today’s realities, as well as the lack of common hierarchy of rules between the various world regulatory systems. To tackle this problem, the report recommends, amongst other things, that the EU-ILO partnership be reviewed and improved – this process is under way, which is to be welcomed; that the ILO obtain observer status at the WTO; that the ILO decisions, particularly the results of its monitoring procedures, be published and that the Union genuinely take them into account in its relations with third countries. The second guideline action concerns development policies. The European Union must develop an integrated approach for its policies and encourage a coordinated aid for promoting core labour standards. Let us take just one example. What is the use of banning child labour if, at the same time, we are not promoting education policies? What progress have we made on enhancing the right of expression of workers living in a country which is not a democracy or which is not a constitutional state? Therefore, by using incentive clauses rather than penalty clauses, clauses which do not simply depend on commercial agreements, we call on the European Union to systematically integrate the clause on core labour standards into all agreements with third countries, whatever the area. Commissioner, I have used an expression, highly prized by feminists, who said that things that are not given a name do not exist. I think that if core labour standards are not given a name, we will forget them, and they will cease to exist. The third point relates to stepping up European efforts in its regional work and in the new regulatory areas which are being established throughout the world in order to adapt the promotion of core labour standards to local realities. The ILO is working on this and genuine synergy might be developed here. The debate is due to be launched on this issue with representatives of developing countries with the aim of identifying realistic and innovative action plans. In our view, Commissioner, this communication is a step forward and should herald a change in the working methods that the European Union must develop with third countries, methods which, in particular, show more respect for these countries’ problems. We also hope, Commissioner, that the Council will take up this issue as soon as possible and we call on the Danish Presidency to schedule an examination of the dossier at the next Social Affairs Council meeting. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by passing on my very sincere thanks to all my fellow Members, especially those who, as part of the four committees which issued opinions, which we tried to integrate as best we could into the report, enabled us, I believe, to produce a better report, and will also, I hope, enable us to achieve a broad consensus. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that 2003 is drawing to a close and with it the European Year of People with Disabilities. It is the perfect time to take stock of the situation, but also to reflect on the future of Community policy in this field. The achievements of this year should be welcomed, Commissioner; it has been a unique opportunity, as you hoped it would be, to promote the rights of people with disabilities and to take into account their legitimate claim to play a full part in social, economic and political life. The momentum created by this year, with thousands of varied events on offer at national, regional and local level, is considerable, and we are grateful to you. Today, however, we need to capitalise on this momentum and use this experience as a launching pad for new measures, both at the level of the Member States and at Community level. The communication that you are tabling does, I believe, properly reflect what is at stake here. I welcome this, but think that it also needs to be said, as one of my fellow Members already has done, that, given the reticence of Member States, greater affirmation of political will is still needed in this field. The lack of enthusiasm shown by Member States to transpose the directive on equal treatment in employment, for example, should be widely denounced, and compels us to do even more. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has a clear position in this regard, and my colleagues and I are convinced that difficulties related to disability should be addressed across the board in an integrated way, taking as our model existing legislation on equal opportunities between men and women. We were very keen to improve a number of legislative texts. You mentioned transport. I should like to say that where corporate social responsibility is concerned, companies’ policies on disability should be one of the criteria for assessing that responsibility and the quality of their contribution to society. At the same time, the European Parliament of Disabled People, which met last week, regretted the fact that a specific European directive on disability would not be concluded during this important year. Admittedly, the gamble taken on the employment issue is absolutely fundamental – no one can dispute that – but we want to believe, Commissioner, that this is just one step towards implementing Community legislation that needs to be even more ambitious. Where disability is concerned, perhaps more than in other areas, I think it is appropriate to finish by sharing with you a personal conviction. These Community legislative measures are essential, and we recognise this, given the impetus that they should unleash, but we also know that it is at national, regional and local level that a whole series of coordinated policies need to be brought on stream, policies that must be accommodated within civil society by industry, the social partners and – let us not forget, where school-related issues are concerned – teachers. In conclusion, allow me to say, Commissioner, Mr President, that where rights are concerned and where the dignity of those who today live with a disability is concerned, we cannot afford to rely solely on Member States’ goodwill. We need to come up with greater incentives, as I hope you are doing in the communication. We are counting on your multiannual report, Commissioner, precisely to exert pressure on those Member States that are not moving in quite the direction that we are recommending. –  Commissioner, you have just outlined proposals on the reform of the common fisheries policy and these have instantly sparked controversy. In your proposals, and quite apart from the many positive aspects that they contain – I am thinking in particular of the areas of control and sanctions, on which everyone seems to agree – there are two points that we see as essential which have not been taken into account. The first point is the reference to total allowable catches, the infamous TACs, and the question of quotas, which should remain the cornerstone of the common fisheries policy. The second point that I would like to highlight, one that has not been taken into account, one that has almost been disregarded, is that of economic and social cohesion in this sector and the consequences for local employment, both direct and indirect employment. The only social measures envisaged are retirement or hypothetical retraining plans. Nothing is envisaged for the youngest generations, to train them, to improve working conditions, and therefore to provide investments in safety on vessels. It is unacceptable to propose the protection of species, fish in this case, as the sole criterion in formulating a policy. We believe that the guarantee of sustainability, in any area, is the result of a balance between economic objectives and environmental objectives, of course, but also between social objectives. For a Community policy, a common policy, to be understood and accepted, it must be based on a comprehensive approach, which is not so in the case of the proposals that you are making today for fisheries. I feel that more needs to be said on the subject of the social objectives, including the danger of consigning the social objectives to European Union policies which are now a basic cause of mistrust and, at worst, rejection, of Europe on the part of the citizens. The impact of the measures on regions dependant on fisheries has not been taken into sufficient account and the proposals you have laid before us today will have to be reviewed to eliminate this imbalance. .  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets I would like to say that the Lisbon objectives must remain the priority of the Union’s economic and social policies, especially on the eve of enlargement, and that it is therefore essential that the Member States make available to the European Union’s budget the resources necessary for achieving those objectives. While we note that the execution of these budget lines is generally acceptable, quantitatively speaking – the rates of execution are perfect – the same cannot always be said of the quality of budget execution, especially as regards very small businesses and the craft trades. It seems to us – and you know we have already said so on a number of occasions – that the Commission is having difficulty in finding ways of channelling funds to this kind of business, be it funds from the European Investment Bank for normative and environmental investments and investments in new technologies, or the experimental funds, especially in the matter of employment law in the enterprise. We therefore consider it very important that this gap should be filled, because very small businesses and the craft trades make up more than 90% of European enterprises and they are both the creators of jobs and the sources of innovation you want to see. All such businesses are therefore actively involved in achieving the Lisbon objectives and in the spirit of those objectives. These entrepreneurs, both men and women, deserve the Commission’s special attention given their importance for the stability of the socio-economic fabric, the continuity of employment and the risks that they take. These initiatives are not simply the work of individuals who are prepared to take risks, they are also the fruit of a general environment that provides equality of opportunity. It is also up to us to encourage entrepreneurship by creating the conditions that are favourable to business creation. I hope that in the years ahead we will be able to provide the  means for achieving these objectives, which are essential for the fulfilment of our great dynamic vision for the Union’s economic development. –  Mr President, I am going to follow Mr Colom i Naval’s advice by speaking on the problem of reform, for which I am the permanent rapporteur. This problem is quite fundamental, because we have to reiterate on a regular basis that the European Parliament is firmly in favour of administrative reform of the institutions. The polemics that are currently raging between those with differing views should be less important than the fundamental problems, and the fundamental problem is to make the Union’s action clearer and more effective in meeting the public’s expectations, so that citizens start to trust the European Union again. You know that, in this budget, we noted several delays in implementing this reform, particularly as regards the Commission’s response – which we have yet to receive – on the rewriting of the financial regulation, and also with regard to setting up base management. The report's fundamental concern is with the reform of the status and organisation of a career in European civil service. We had to take a precautionary measure and put funds into the reserve for creating the new positions that were requested. This is nothing more than a precautionary measure, and I would like to reiterate that, for the time being, this is only at the first reading stage as we asked the Commission to provide clarification on the implementation of the single Statute, so that we could have very precise and realistic answers, particularly on the problem of early retirement schemes for civil servants and temporary staff, but also on the problems caused by absenteeism and vacancies. We believe that the Commission will be able to provide us with the answers to all these issues, but, nevertheless, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that hypothetical positions will not help this reform to move forward. We have 15 countries and seven institutions, but we have only one European Union, for which only one statute is needed. We must not take refuge behind the reports published last year, because the linearity is no longer what it was. We therefore want a clear budgetary framework in order to adopt a position, and I shall repeat the request made by all the Committees of Parliament to the Council: the Council must start talking and give us answers on a regular basis so that all our procedures – and reform, in particular – progress within a framework that is efficient in terms of budget. This reform is vital: it must not just look good on paper, but should also be realistic and applicable over time. Nothing will stop when we reach 2004. Everything must continue. The reform process must provide renewed motivation and must modernise the way we work, but it must retain a European civil service that has one objective: to implement the political plans of the European Union that restore citizens' confidence. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, here we are at last at second reading and as far as the administrative reform is concerned I agree with Mrs Wynn and colleagues who raised the matter. It is true that at first reading we were quite severe with the Commission about the reform. However, as you know, after the Commission’s replies we are quite prepared to give up these reservations, although there are still some points, two in particular, that bother us. Let me remind you of them. First there is the question of early retirement; up to now, and for several months now, we have had no reaction and seen no document that meets our expectations. The second point to which I would draw the attention of Parliament as a whole is the establishment of base management activity, with as its corollary the lack of any reliable response from the Commission on the application of coherent legislative and budgetary procedures with a view to drawing up our next budgets. I must say that we would not be so concerned if the administrative reform had been accompanied by an even more revolutionary reform, that is, a much more satisfactory system of interinstitutional relations with a view to drawing up the budgets. I must tell you that if the Council could reply in time, coherently and on a reasoned basis to the questions we or the Commission put to it, we could make progress on every front. Above all, if the Commission implemented in a reliable manner the budgets we as the budgetary authority adopt, believe me, Parliament would not hesitate today and would find it easier to give a vote of confidence and to abandon many of its reservations, especially those relating to the reform. You may be sure that Parliament continues to spearhead the reform with a view to modernising the administration; but then the Commission must also give us proof of its serious resolve to reform the working procedures between our two institutions. –  Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main points of the report presented by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Wynn, have already been described. We can all, therefore, understand its importance. Reforming the budgetary procedure is by no means a technical issue that can only be handled by specialists. Quite the opposite: it is an eminently political subject: it concerns our ability to give substance to European integration and demonstrate our solidarity through action. I personally would simply like to remind the participants in the current negotiations of their responsibilities. That means going beyond the sterile little game of defending national privileges and territory in the short term. That kind of attitude never leads to successful negotiations, ending instead with lame compromises which, at the end of the day, do not satisfy anyone. It is time we looked to see where the true interests of Europeans as a whole lie. We need to create a virtuous circle where the concessions made by the various parties ultimately benefit everyone. If this state of mind is allowed to triumph, I think it will be possible to seize the opportunity provided by the Convention. Let us therefore have the political courage necessary to demand a genuine reform which, I reiterate, includes, specifically, removing the distinction between mandatory and non-mandatory spending, establishing a European tax and laying down uniform rules for all the Member States. The Convention must establish a genuine codecision procedure, within which framework Parliament and the Council can work together as equals to handle all aspects of the Community budget and the other financial instruments available to European politicians. This method alone will make it possible to strengthen the democratic nature of the European budget decisively and to bring the citizens closer to our institutions, as we want with all our hearts. Mr President, Commissioner, the new annual policy strategy instrument allows the legislative and budgetary cycles to be combined and makes a political reading of our budget easier. We believe it is essential that policies that have been codecided should really be entered in the budget without sacrificing other European policies; this will require a higher income than proposed. I will, however, stress that more funding needs to be budgeted for the Lisbon objectives. At the half-way stage we have not reached our targets. It is therefore imperative that budget resources be concentrated on employment, innovation and social cohesion policies. We must in that way ensure that the social partners take part in modernisation talks. All the budget lines allowing progress to be made with the Union’s economic governance must also be funded. We are agreed in recognising the essential part played by small firms in modernising employment. They play a recognised part in the creation and preservation of jobs. We must continue to help them by improving their environment, however. It must be made easier to support non-governmental organisations in the social sector and we shall have to find a way to put an end to their financial insecurity. Finally, I agree with our rapporteur that information and communication are areas to which the Commission needs to give greater priority and on which it must take action. Not only must these budget lines be funded, but more especially the Commission must fully realise what its role is in this information policy because all policies must come back to and finish with the citizen. –  Mr President, having listened to Commissioner Vitorino and several of my fellow Members, I can see that we share a concern to provide information to our citizens, and I listened with great interest to the Commissioner asking us for more resources than those which were set aside in the preliminary draft budget and the budget. We were, in fact, extremely surprised to see the reductions which had been made to these lines, at a time when so many doubts are being harboured by European citizens who still do not seem to be receiving the right information. Commissioner, I would like to emphasise the fact that we tabled many amendments in order to give the Commission another chance to complete this essential task, namely the communication on the work of the European Union institutions. But I would also like to stress the fact that this communication must be, as Mrs Iivari said, targeted towards the ordinary citizen, the average citizen, who, when working or going to the market, does not understand what the European Union is doing for the future. We must undertake a thorough review of the strategy used by our institutions to communicate with the public. Let us go to meet the inhabitants of our fifteen countries and try to understand them. I believe that, as we did for economic measures, we must move from macrointervention towards closer intervention. As we do for SMEs, let us go and look for the citizens one by one! Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, the way speaking time is organised is so mischievous and bizarre that I now have to speak again about transport problems and agencies. Having said that, I very much support what my colleague Mr Hatzidakis has said, namely that we must keep the lines as they were in the preliminary draft budget because there are no savings to be made on these policies for the present. I would like to take the opportunity, Commissioner, to respond to the problem of the policy of providing information to European Union citizens. This subject will really be one of the most important in the years ahead. You may know that several of us have tabled amendments to restore the lines to what they were last year. The most important thing, however, is that all institutional communication should get as close to ordinary citizens as possible. What worries me the most about the present communications policy is that we do not have the necessary tools to reach those who are going to vote. The citizen’s ignorance of the present machinery and the institutions as they will be is quite appalling. You have the resources, Commissioner, but for goodness sake let us ensure that they go to the heart of our present-day society. That would be a great step forward for the democratic future of our Union. –  Madam President, Commissioner, Council Representative, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wish to thank our two rapporteurs, Mrs Gill and Mr Mulder, for the method they have used and for the quality of their work on this new budgetary framework. This has enabled us to vote on a budget for twenty-five countries, taking up the traditional budgetary priorities and Parliament’s constant concerns, relating specifically to our core traditional policies, but also to the concerns that we have been expressing for years on the subject of micro-enterprises, citizens’ information and policies of justice, security and solidarity. Having said that, the problems raised by the draft budget that the Council submitted to us do not bode well for the future, in particular the historically low level of payment appropriations: less than 1% of GDP, the likes of which we have to go back more than seventeen years to see. The Council, which is obsessed with the health of national economies, is acting like an accountant but certainly not like a manager and even less as if it had a vision for the European Union’s future. The discrepancy between the codecision agreements and what has been included in the budget, the discrepancy between the projects for economic recovery, the project for a knowledge-based society for all twenty-five countries and the reality of the budget sap the credibility of the Union as a whole. So what has happened to the spirit of Lisbon? The EU budget does not match our ambition, or our expectations. This year, two headings fail to comply with the financial perspective. First, EUR 83 million too much has been earmarked for rural development, which highlights the needs created by the CAP’s new approach. Nevertheless, observing budgetary rigour, I propose that we give up this surplus and prepare better for the 2005 financial year. Let me now turn to external policy, where the problem is quite different. The Commission has made proposals for the reconstruction of Iraq that are reasonable and acceptable in budgetary terms. What is the point, then, of the proposal for EUR 500 million, apart from reviving splits that have cost us so much credibility on the international stage? All Europeans should quickly find the path of realistic wisdom and mutual respect. Lastly, I wish to recall the importance for Parliament of policies for communicating with the citizens. The serious incident between the Commission and Europe’s information bodies weakens this policy and demonstrates the difficulties that the Commission has in respecting the priorities set by Parliament. The new financial regulation must not be called into question, as it allows for greater transparency in relations with the bodies that receive European subsidies. Having said that, the implementing arrangements endanger three hundred essential information organisations. It is therefore obvious that a solution must be found to ensure that their work can continue. This serious incident nevertheless warrants one fundamental observation: why did the Commission not warn us in time? Like any administration, it has a duty to inform political representatives. This course of action was not taken even though it was stipulated in the confidence pact concluded during the implementation of the administrative reform. We voted in favour of giving confidence; we gave you the resources and in return we expected the promised effectiveness for the implementation of our political choices and particularly of our entire budget. This is an essential requirement if we are to be able, in future, to develop real policies of growth and solidarity and policies for the future in the context of an enlarged Union that wishes to succeed for the benefit of all its citizens. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I am delighted to have the floor after Mrs Grossetête, because all Members representing mountain regions face the same problems and share the same ideas about their respective areas. I am very grateful to you for your words, Mrs Schreyer, which show how interested the Commission is today in the range of problems facing mountain regions; we are quite aware of this. I would also like you to know that we firmly intend to work together to ensure that our areas, which have very well-defined handicaps, can be effectively protected. I shall therefore dwell on a few points that complement what has just been said. If we want our territories to enjoy a form of economic development that comprehensively brings together preserving the countryside, preserving the type of farming that is characteristic of a mountain region and developing tourism, perhaps the Commission should listen more carefully to two or three points that are absolutely crucial. I should like to recall that competition policy, as it is currently legislated for and regulated by the European Union, can by no means meet the needs of these regions, which do not have as many opportunities as others. I think it is crucial that Community competition legislation is adapted to take account of the specific characteristics of our regions, in order to reduce these economic and structural disadvantages. We must also put in place economic and financial support and tax concessions of a structural and sustainable nature. Such measures are essential if we wish to combat the desertification and the ageing of these regions because, at the moment, these developments appear to be inevitable. I also wish to reiterate the importance of the EU’s environmental policy. This might be a taboo subject, but I hope that, whenever work is done in this field, thought is given to the applicability of these provisions, which were designed for an urban context, a context of lowlands that do not experience the same type of problem. Very often, when regions with a geographical handicap are forced to apply this regulatory approach, they find themselves totally disempowered. I would even say that they suffer genuine deprivation. We therefore fervently hope that, together, armed with a coherent vision, we will be able to make progress, because enlargement will give mountain regions an extremely important role to play. Furthermore, in its work, the Convention must address our set of problems quite specifically. This concerns the territorial coherence and the cohesion of the European Union. – Mr President, Commissioner, I should first like to congratulate our rapporteurs, Mr Mulder and Mrs Gill, as well as the entire Committee on Budgets and those who have worked on preparing the 2004 Budget. It all happened with unaccustomed ease, within a completely new budgetary framework and in the context of an enlarged Europe. I believe that our Committee has achieved, for this legislative period, a mature ability to compromise and has proved itself capable, under the leadership of our Chairman, Mr Wynn, of developing successful working methods, which have borne fruit this year in particular. Our group’s priorities have been heard, taken on board and reinforced. I am thinking in particular of Community policies to benefit companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. There have been all those policies that have contributed to the construction of a people’s Europe, such as town-twinning projects in the enlarged Europe, and also those such as the earmarking of funds for vaccination against poverty-related diseases, which make Europe’s active role in the world visible. A trouble-free budget, then, but one marked by a general reduction in Parliament’s powers on financial matters. Yet again, the Council has challenged our rights and prerogatives. And for what? It is high time that questions were asked about the discrepancy between political rhetoric and budgetary feasibility. Every year, I stand before you and denounce what has become a recurring problem. The Council’s frosty attitude is prejudicial to our legitimate budgetary ambitions. Furthermore, the Brussels fiasco has demonstrated what kind of future our Heads of State or Government have in store for Europe. We cannot achieve a Europe that is genuinely relevant to the lives of its citizens without major, far-reaching policies. And major, far-reaching policies require a budget to match. The Council seems to have ignored this obvious fact, focused as it is on the Stability Pact and pandering to national self-interest. Is this the Europe that we want to build? It most definitely is not. It is, however, the Europe that the Council would like us to have. During the budget vote, we had an example of such inconsistency with information policy. We want to bring Europe closer to its people. Being concerned about the general public’s disaffection with European integration, we are trying to unite the people around major projects. All of this requires a coherent, ambitious information and communication policy and without Parliament’s intervention, funds set aside for this policy would have been subject to budget cuts from the Council. What is most serious, however, is the reduction of our budget. Payment appropriations have fallen this year below 0.99% of GDP, their lowest level since 1987. I therefore endorse Mr Cox’s remarks and Mr Prodi’s analysis in response to the calls by six Heads of State for payment appropriations to be capped to 1% of the GNP. Where is the consistency with the Lisbon Agenda, the Union’s blueprint for growth and competitiveness? Miracles do not happen, and nobody has ever managed to square the circle. Being Head of State or of Government is a position of responsibility; it is about ensuring the matching of means consistent with objectives. If the Council wishes to lead us into a dead end, it is up to us, the European Parliament, to remind it of its promises. I do not see how we can finance these crucial reforms on increasingly meagre resources. MEPs are elected by the people; they are elected to take responsibility, and I am grateful to Commissioner Schreyer for reminding us of this. They are capable of preparing EU budgets within the bounds of fiscal orthodoxy, and will continue to be so, but they also know that the EU must abide by approved – jointly approved – political priorities. The Council must respect Parliament now, and in the future must show more trust towards this House, which enjoys the legitimacy of the ballot box. –  Mr President, Commissioner, as you know and as you see, the European Parliament remains very vigilant about the future of regional policy, one of the most important policies in the eyes of the citizens. Despite the work done by our rapporteur and our committee, one crucial point is still outstanding: the amount of funding to be allocated to this policy. It is essential that the future expenditure ceiling should allow this policy to be strengthened after enlargement. There is a very great difference between the Commission’s proposals for 1.24% of gross domestic income (GDI) and the 1% proposed by six States, and regional policy runs the risk of being used as a balancing item for European politics. We remember the commitment shown by Mr Barnier, who steadfastly opposed the six countries that want a reduced European budget. Now that Mr Barnier is a government minister, I therefore hope he will continue to show in the Council the commitment he had as Commissioner and that he will be able to get all his colleagues to change their position with regard to the Commission proposal. The Structural Funds are in fact essential to European solidarity. The Union needs a real cohesion policy, the financial resources to implement it and therefore income equivalent to at least 1.24% of GDI. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report upon which we are to vote tomorrow is first and foremost a progress report on cohesion policy. We must congratulate ourselves on the positive impact of this policy, which has proved crucial to the harmonious development of the Union. Having said that, a great deal still remains to be done. I believe our objective should be to make this policy simpler, more intelligent and more generous. By more intelligent, I mean that this policy must be flexible and take account of the wide variety of handicaps facing the European regions. We need to define clearer allocation criteria and set achievable objectives. In this regard, the GDP statistics have a clear advantage. This, however, is a simplistic solution, which can only be partial, and which does not allow for adaptation to all the realities in the field. We must take account of other indicators that are just as relevant and quantifiable, such as accessibility, public infrastructures and employment rates. This approach would enable us to develop a cohesion policy that benefits regions whose development is lagging behind, but which is also suited to mountainous regions, sparsely populated regions, and regions with geographical handicaps. The new regional policy must also be simpler. That means that its beneficiaries must be able to use it easily. Together with Commissioner Barnier and the Member States, we have started to work towards this, but the current exercise is restricted by the framework set by the regulations in force. We must do more to simplify the administrative framework after 2006. The third objective is to make cohesion policy more generous. Today, fund absorption capacity is often used to justify restrictions on subsidies that are granted. I believe that after 2006, if we succeed in coming up with instruments suited to local needs that are easy to use, the budget for these can and should be greater. The problem is not that there is one cake to be shared between regions, as some would have us believe. The Union must show ambition for the sake of all its citizens when it comes to showing that it is an area of solidarity. –  Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot remain indifferent in the face of the current situation in Algeria. On the contrary, it should make us more committed to making a clear assessment of the current state of the country and to helping the Algerian people to overcome their difficulties. That is why I am giving my full support to the Euro-Mediterranean association agreement that has been presented to us for our agreement today. I believe it is along the right lines for four main reasons. This is part of the very rationale behind the process opened in Barcelona, encouraging Euro-Mediterranean dialogue. This agreement will facilitate regional integration and in particular the Arab Maghreb Union, which we are hoping for with all our might. This agreement sends a strong signal of the solidarity of European citizens with the Algerian people. And in particular, this agreement should support Algeria in its efforts to achieve openness, reforms and modernisation. That is the most important thing. In this context, I am pleased to see the broad consensus within the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy in favour of the proposed measures. Nevertheless, our agreement must not be interpreted as giving the Algerian authorities carte blanche. We must remain vigilant on the subject of human rights, democracy and good governance. These fundamental values are the very cornerstone of the European Union and must be respected as a prerequisite for the correct implementation of the agreement. That is why Parliament’s motion for a resolution, which recalls these requirements, is along the right lines and should be given the utmost consideration. Please allow me to add that, as a Frenchwoman, I am particularly aware of the difficulties that the Algerian people has suffered for so long. The suffering of this country has gone on long enough. We all need to take urgent action to find concrete solutions. The association agreement will contribute to this if we are able to give objective consideration to Algeria’s real problems. . –  Commissioner, thank you for clarifying those points on your reform plans. I would agree with Mr Swoboda when he says that the staff currently feel great concern, despite your attempts to reassure us by telling us that it is only a minority. However, if I have understood correctly, the negotiations are going to start now, which should make it possible to bring the plan in line with the principles you advocate: merit, modernity and training. I should like, therefore, to ask three questions. In your plan, how do you intend to take account of the multicultural reality of the situation of European Union officials who do not all have the same traditions in terms of administrative management? How do you think it will be possible for everyone to manage? Secondly, even if the implementation is a lengthy process – you have just mentioned the year 2002 – do you not consider it essential to put systems in place rapidly or, in other words, to phase in the implementation in order to restore confidence in the working methods and the motivation of Europe’s officials. Thirdly, I feel that there is one area which we have failed to take into consideration and that is how do you take into account the priorities determined by the expert working group, which specified that two interfaces had to be reformed as a priority? This was the interface between the work of the administrative staff of the Commission of the European Union and, I would say, the decision makers, Directors-General and Commissioners. The second interface concerns the relationship between the administrative work of the Commission and those to whom we provide money or working methods, the methods of intervention of the European Union. What plans do you have in this respect? Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, democracies do have weapons, but when they give up using them, they lose their souls. The way they have dealt with the status of women in Afghanistan should serve as a lesson. Today, we are dealing with an agreement between the European Union and Pakistan which has no direct financial impact, since the European Community signed a technical cooperation agreement worth EUR 5 million with Pakistan in February. The main thrust of the agreement put to us is therefore political. We are all aware of Pakistan’s geostrategic role, bordering as it does on Afghanistan and India. We are all aware of the contribution it has made to the anti-terrorist coalition initiated by the Americans following the events of 11 September 2001. None of this, however, can justify our support for a country where the present authorities came to power by means of a military coup and where the most recent elections were held in circumstances condemned by our observers and resulted in the installation of a coalition of supporters of President Musharraf and Islamist fundamentalist religious parties not afraid to express their support for Bin Laden. President Musharraf has just adopted an amendment increasing the powers of the armed forces. The leader of the opposition, Benazir Bhutto, is still in exile and her husband has been in prison for five years. We do not underestimate the signs of  produced under American pressure in relations with Kashmir, but we feel that nothing practical has yet been achieved. We, as European democrats, cannot continue to bemoan the fate of Aung San Suu Kyi in Burma and go along with such an agreement without some soul-searching. For all these reasons, I beg you, on behalf of the French socialist delegation, to refer this agreement back to committee. –  Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the speed with which the Commission has put forward the proposals to set up a solidarity fund and the promptness with which our institution is able to respond to them. By this, we are showing that the European Union is reactive and responds to the concerns of its citizens. I also welcome the fact that the recommendations that the European Parliament is preparing to make emphasise an important point, namely an emergency fund, the aim of which is to provide essential relief items to those affected. The mechanisms for releasing the appropriations which are put in place as well as the timeframes specified must, as a necessity, take into account this specific point. European money must arrive quickly on the ground in order to assist victims at the time when they need it most. Because the aim of this Fund is to demonstrate in practical terms the solidarity of Europe's citizens towards disaster victims, many Members of Parliament and I myself would like the intervention thresholds to be more generous and to take into account regional characteristics. It is now the Council’s responsibility to tackle this point. I believe, however, that if Parliament insists that flexible qualitative criteria be taken into account when releasing funds, it must be heard. It is possible that a disaster destroying poor regions of the Union, the outermost regions for example, or which completely devastates a territory, as has happened recently in the South of France, will not be able to benefit from European solidarity, because of nothing more than accounting reasons. I must say that, personally speaking, I believe it is essential that natural disasters are handled separately and as a priority, because, in this case, it is impossible to identify who is responsible and therefore to claim insurance. It is in these cases that European funds are most needed. As a final, very brief, point, I would like to reiterate that repairs must go hand in hand with the implementation of a genuine policy of prevention and that of a European civil protection force, in order to give rapid assistance to those European citizens who are in the most difficulty. – Mr President, Commissioner, I am not going to emphasise the importance of the networks and of the Info-Points, on which I think that we all – both the Commission and Parliament – agree. For my part, I am going to consider a more financial aspect, that is, the Financial Regulation – the new Financial Regulation. I believe that we all agree on that issue too. We worked together, Parliament approved it and it has been accepted. All that remains is to implement it. We also all agree that the procedures under this Financial Regulation must be adhered to, including the procedures that allow for genuine transparency in the implementation of the budget. Moreover, if we have understood correctly, the Commission has been given every  resource required for this implementation. I believe, Mr Kinnock, that this is a key element not only in this case, but also for the future. For the implementation of the budget, however, it is also essential for the sums to arrive on time. We talk in the industry of ‘just on time’, and that is where the problem lies. We are now in a situation where the Commission did not think far enough ahead and where, rather than coming to see us to explain that perhaps there was a problem or further difficulties, it waited until we were alerted by the public and by the networks, and are now extremely worried. Not only was the Commission slow in warning us, Mr Kinnock; more important, several things have been covered up. For example, when we are told that ‘several structures have agreed not to receive any money’, I disagree! Several structures have agreed to be provided with material resources, but have never said that they did not need any money. I find this approach somewhat disagreeable in view of the need for us to be as sincere as possible in our joint work. Today, we must find a solution for 2004 and I believe that we will find it on Monday. In any event, I hope that we will, so that it can continue through to 2005. However, what we need now is for the Commission to assure us that it is going to be able to implement the solution that I am sure we are going to find, without fail and in good time to enable the Info-Points to continue operating. This is vital, as we have said, for Europe cannot withstand any further democratic breakdown. Europe can continue to work at an administrative level, but without the citizens it will not do so for long, and the Info-Points are one of the key intermediaries in ensuring that we finally have a Europe of Citizens. –  Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the vote at first reading of the 2003 budget, I must confess to mixed feelings. We are working to overcome the constraints of the Community budget as best we can and find the best possible arbitration. Having said that, I cannot prevent myself from thinking that we placed these constraints on ourselves. The now regular reduction in the Community budget as a percentage of GDP seems to me to be of particular concern. Once again, we do not appear to want to equip ourselves with the means to fulfil our ambitions. The situation of heading 4 is a prime example of this. The Council, in the context of large multinational conferences, undertakes to support various very worthy causes: the reconstruction of Afghanistan, campaigns to fight AIDS, etc. Then, when it returns to Brussels, it does not seem to want to give us the means to keep its promises. We owe it to ourselves to remind the Member States of their duty to ensure coherence and, in particular, to fulfil our ambitions with regard to enlargement. More generally, I believe that the current Financial Perspective system has shown that it is no longer capable of fulfilling the needs of Europe. I would not like you to think, however, that our draft budget is bad. On the contrary, I believe that, in many areas, we have succeeded in making progress and finding compromises that are acceptable to everyone. I welcome the fact that, as regards heading 1, the amendments proposed by the Committee on Budgets clearly reflect our wish to make the common agricultural policy fairer, more just and more sustainable, and to strengthen its rural development pillar. The budget must first and foremost fulfil the citizens’ expectations. The amendments proposed by my group with regard to the ‘information and communication policy’ chapters are along these lines and are essential to the future of Europe. The same is true of support for small businesses and craft trades. As Mrs Haug stated in our various speeches, that must be a priority. Employment depends on it. These appropriations cannot be refused year upon year. I would nonetheless like to thank our two rapporteurs for having instigated new methods of budgetary debate, for greater transparency, because all this is indispensable with a view to increasing citizens’ awareness of European politics in future. Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, still on the subject of regional policy, transport and tourism, I have to say to you that we are quite worried, not to say disillusioned, by our reading of the draft budget. The problem has been clearly explained: to see the budget lines for essential policies cut so drastically by the Council worries us extremely. I have to say to you that it worries us because it happens all the time. Whatever the decision-making procedures, whatever the reports highlighting the European Union’s development needs, the same thing has happened for years: whenever budget time comes the Council makes the most astounding cuts to its programmes, which are nevertheless among the most important ones for encouraging development in the European Union. Time passes and nothing changes in this. Hence our concern and hence the Commission’s unanimity in seeking to use amendments to get the level of expenditure provided for in the preliminary draft budget reinstated. I will return for a few moments to the issue of the Structural Funds and I would like to thank Commissioner Barnier for all the explanations he has given us. We can indeed see that the simplifications made are bearing fruit. We also note a qualitative and quantitative improvement in the management of those funds. In short, we want the European Union’s budget to take account of the reality of expenditure, which will avoid the Commission having to present supplementary draft budgets, which would be damaging to the peaceful implementation of these essential funds. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like previous speakers, I should like to thank all those who have spoken on this subject, a subject we have debated on many occasions. I also share Commissioner Kinnock’s opinion that we have become used to working together and that very special links have been created. I am speaking now, however, as the spokesperson for the opinion of the Committee on Budgets and, as such, I welcome the Commission’s assurances regarding the cost of reforming the staff regulations of the European Civil Service. If the working hypotheses are confirmed, the reform as a whole will be of limited cost to the Union’s budget and it ought, in any case, to be possible to finance it in the context of the current financial perspective. This is absolutely essential and I should therefore like to give Commissioner Kinnock full marks on this point. This initial finding leads me to make a few additional comments, however. First of all, insofar as the reform package negotiated with the unions observes the principle of rigour, it seems to me that there is no need for the Council to demand that rights acquired by civil servants in relation to pensions should suddenly be called into question. The need to make savings on pensions is not urgent, and if the Council really wants to find ways of making savings, it should quite simply and quickly approve our proposals regarding the staff regulations of our parliamentary assistants. Secondly, we think that pensions should not be a taboo subject. Improvements are possible and it seems to me, for example, that there is no longer any case for continuing to use the correction coefficients. I would also have liked to see mechanisms put in place to ensure the long-term viability of the current pensions system, precisely because we must protect civil servants’ interests. This cannot be done, however, without acting gradually, over a period of time, and above all in a spirit of consultation and dialogue. Thirdly, and finally, on a broader level we must not lose sight of the objectives of this reform, which led us to encourage reform in general and the reform of the staff regulations in particular. It is – and always should be – a question of improving the efficaciency and the performance of the European institutions in the service of the Union. It is in the light of those objectives that we shall evaluate the appropriateness of each measure and judge the success of the reform. –  Mr President, on behalf of the French socialist delegation, I offer our full support for the draft Statute for Members proposed in Mr Rothley’s report. The success of the enlargement process renders the adoption of this report even more urgent. We approve of the approach taken in it and its underlying principles, above all those of openness and equal pay. The transparency of the system through which Members are paid must be increased: citizens are far from unconcerned about this issue. They demand answers from us. We should, moreover, apply the principle of equal pay for all Members as rigorously as possible. In order to put this principle into practice intelligently, allowances need to be adapted to reflect differences in living standards among the Member States. This is the means by which we will achieve truly equal pay. Similar mechanisms for adjusting pay according to the location of the workplace already exist for European officials, and are considered fair. The French socialist delegation has accordingly tabled an amendment to Article 16 of the draft Statute to this effect. We invite you to join us in supporting it. Please allow me to make an appeal to caution: democracy has a price, as we all know, and citizens must understand that. I would like to close by saying to you that this Statute, although not perfect, is a step forward, a step towards true European democracy. I hope that the Council will respect Parliament’s work. –  Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, following the Berlin Agreement, and the interinstitutional agreement, it was mandatory to review the system of own resources of the European Union in order to weight the shares of each Member State correctly. The report by Jutta Haug recalls the objective of this overhaul. It is fourfold: to simplify the system, to create greater transparency thus making it more comprehensible, to strengthen the financial autonomy of the European Union and to reduce the imbalances between Member States’ shares in the budget. The envisaged readjustment of the balance between the four types of resource and, in particular, the reduction of the VAT share in favour of the GNP-related share of each country is of particular interest, since it is far more equitable. It is a better reflection of each citizen’s actual capacity to contribute. We consider this important, and it must be pursued. While various elements have been underlined by previous speakers, I would like to return to two specific points. Firstly, it is essential that the imbalances in the current budget shares due to rebates, which are perhaps justified in terms of previous history, should be gradually, progressively but persistently dismantled and that the contributions of each country are brought to what they should be in objective, accounting terms. This simplification is essential for the equity of the system and for the transparency of management, two imperatives which will go towards ensuring the future of Europe. Particularly on the eve of enlargement, current practices for rebates or reductions are no longer justified and must therefore be inexorably abandoned. The second point I wish to draw your attention to is one I find extremely strange. It is the request made by Member States to deduct administrative costs for collecting this tax, which may go from 10% to 25%. What justification is there for this usurious inflation? The strengthening of supervision and follow-up tasks for food safety are perfectly standard activities for states. The 10% basic rate must therefore be maintained, making it possible to amply cover the expenses incurred in this task. On behalf of the Parliament, I expect the Commission to take up the requirements mentioned above, since they are essential to our political objectives of clarity, transparency and equity. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following on from what Mr Harbour has just said, I will now very briefly talk about technical problems of concern to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I would nonetheless like to tell you, Commissioner, that I am delighted with the advances that have been made in the area of cooperation since our last meeting in a plenary session. In fact I, in addition to many other Members, regret that the Commission should make proposals and generate information, but does not really consult the other institutions, the trade union organisations or the staff committees of these institutions. Now, since February, my prayers have been answered, because this procedure, thankfully, has been given a great deal of attention and has been widely listened to by the institutions you are currently consulting. I know that you will notice that a wide consensus has been reached on many proposals. On this subject, I would like to say something quite different to my colleague Mr Harbour. It turns out that there are still two delicate points for us to consider in these negotiations. To be precise, the structure of careers, that is to say linearity, or else the status quo, and also the pensions system. If, recently, I understood you correctly, it appears that you are currently searching for a compromise between these two career systems. It is my personal wish that a realistic and modern proposal will be found through your negotiations. I would also remind you that as far as pensions are concerned, even if very often it is thought that a pensions system by pre-funding is the way forward, there are many of us, the trade unionists, employees and others, who think that the current system of distribution can be upheld or in any case combined. I shall now come back to budgetary concerns relating to the reform. Firstly, and as a matter of precaution, I have to remind you that the implementation of a system for early retirement has not received Parliament’s endorsement other than upon the specific condition of budgetary neutrality, wherever it may be implemented. In relation to the entirety of the reform, we would therefore wait for, as soon as is possible, a complete document stating the budgetary aspect of the current negotiations. It is therefore very important that the Committee on Budgets should have better knowledge of your current predictions on the global cost of reform. In fact, in March we heard talk of EUR 500 million. Today, EUR 600 million is stated. In addition, further measures proposed and the demands of other institutions have put a large strain on the funds required for the balance of category 5, hence our concern. Another element of doubt that makes the 2002 budgetary decision more complex is Council’s failure to respond to the 2001 letter of Amendment No 1 on the implementation of early retirement schemes. If the Council still insists on its proposal to raise the age for early retirement, we have a question: what will be the consequences for your draft, and, more importantly, do you think that it would be wise to continue under these conditions? We do not currently have a document that allows Parliament to measure the consequences of these positions. Although we are very attached to the idea of reform, we cannot make blind decisions on choices that are so technically, humanely and financially important. To decide in this way would be like signing a blank cheque to the Commission, which is not in our nature. To this day, we can only remark that the preliminary draft budget put forward by the Commission exceeds the category 5 ceilings of 5 million and that Council is now putting forward a draft budget where these ceilings are most certainly respected, with a margin of 58 million, but where all the policies of the different institutions would not, as a result of this, be respected. The solution: should category 5 support the two largest projects – enlargement and the cost of reform – on its own? Should we continue these efforts solely on reform or also on enlargement? In any case, we need a response. Would it not be possible to extend reform over a longer period? On the eve of voting on the draft budget, we are aware that the responses you provide clearly depend on so many pieces of the same puzzle, but it is very important that you clarify matters in order for us to make a decision. –  Mr President, I wanted to inform you and the whole of Parliament of the plight of two women, Maria and Natacha Illiasova, who, since summer 2001, have been in prison in Tallinn, Estonia. Many of us have complained to Estonia, to the Commission delegation in Tallinn, because these women were imprisoned on the grounds that a businessman had been assassinated by two professional hit-men. These women are accused of ordering the assassination. The only witness is an Estonian policeman who has declined to testify. For over 18 months, however, these women have been in prison without trial, in that they have never had a public hearing. All their hearings have taken place . The officially-appointed lawyers have not provided them with any documents concerning their case or any information at all on their situation or the proceedings that are underway. Mr President, could you resume your efforts to ensure that the law, the law as we understand it here in this House – human rights, the rights of the individual – is respected in Estonia in the case of Natacha and Maria Illiasova? –  Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the two rapporteurs. They have highlighted the importance of cohesion policy for the European Union, and therefore for the people of Europe. The cohesion policy is a policy of solidarity, particularly for the structurally disadvantaged regions. Today the fundamental policies of the European Union are being called into question. The press are referring to the so-called extra costs in exaggerated terms. It is essential to underline how vital these policies are, especially for the regions that have benefited from them to date. How far behind would they have lagged in terms of development without European Union aid? These are the policies that make the European Union come alive for its citizens. They are policies advocating solidarity, redistribution and the creation of bridges between areas that are not experiencing the same difficulties. I have no hesitation in saying that these policies have brought the European Union alive. It is incumbent upon us to ensure policies like these are retained. We must keep on the right track. It is not a question of restructuring the European budget to make it more dynamic; rather it is a matter of increasing the budget. If the European Union wants to do more, it must provide itself with the means to do so. I must emphasise one point in particular. It concerns our development indicators. GDP alone is no longer a relevant criterion. Now we have achieved a certain degree of macro-equity in Europe, it is time to refine these criteria. Micro-economic indicators must be taken into account and this assessment should constantly inform our future action. I am now thinking in particular of the regions affected by desertification and suffering from structural handicaps in relation to employment, training, amenities, accessibility and demography. The Commission should now have all the necessary staff in place following the reform. I trust, therefore, it will ensure that these funds are actually spent. . –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resignation of the Commission in March 1999 highlighted the need to reform its structures and working methods. The energetic reform exercise it is now undertaking must seek above all to restore public confidence. The need for reform is beyond doubt and the Commission must become a first-class administration in the service of our political objective. That is an essential condition for lending credibility to the construction of the European Union. Following the reports by the independent experts, the Commission, at the initiative of Mr Kinnock, presented a White Paper proposing reforms to the way it functions. Officially, our Parliament is consulted simply with a view to delivering an opinion, but Mr Kinnock assured us that our views would be taken very seriously in the Commission's further activities, in which we will be associated. Given the scale of the task, four committees were involved and a hitherto unknown procedure was applied, in the form of four parallel reports. Let me now welcome the work done with my PPE colleagues, Mr Pomés Ruiz, Mr Harbour and Mr Lamassoure. So we decided on a method of looking at the entire issue, without any overlaps. That method was respected and involved us in a major consultation process. It enabled us to take a common approach, which respected each committee's terms of reference while seeking a real, underlying consistency among our reports. However, I want to point out that the PSE considers it essential for the reform to respect the treaties in a very pragmatic way. The cohesion between all the reform sectors should assure the people of Europe that the methods by which European integration is managed politically are clearly visible and truly transparent. Obviously the modernisation of a structure as complex as the Commission requires diplomacy, patience and trust on the part of the various players, and particularly the staff. That is why we want to ensure that this process is not imposed from above; we consider it crucial that all the staff are effectively associated in this whole process of modernisation. Although it may be led from the top, the reform must be clear and visible to the unions, to all the staff, who must be effectively associated in this whole process. We are firmly resolved to give a new dynamism to the European civil service, but that means we must respect certain principles: the European civil service must continue to be governed by a single set of interinstitutional Staff Regulations, which ensure that every official is recruited at the same basic grade and provide for real mobility, access to real training. The recruitment procedure must always guarantee equal opportunities to all EU nationals. The Committee on Budget's opinion on the reform concentrates on these major aspects, in line with our powers and responsibilities. The leitmotif is the systematic reminder that, parallel to any legislative procedure, all budgetary decisions must be taken in the framework of the related annual procedures and the Interinstitutional Agreement. Parliament has a great responsibility towards the citizens. As an arm of the budgetary authority, it must ensure that public monies are properly used. Moreover, over and above all other considerations, we will be even more careful in future to ensure that the Commission really does spend the adopted budget on implementing the various political priorities our Parliament has democratically decided, rather than reallocating it on the basis of functional weaknesses. The package of measures proposed in the White Paper must help modernise the whole way the Commission functions and make it more efficient. We will support it and ensure that these procedures lead, as soon as possible, to a management culture geared to results and performance criteria, taking account of the cost-benefit ratio but also of our political priorities, and remembering that decentralisation and delegation of authority are essential tools, provided that power of decision and of supervision are guaranteed. The communication from the European Commission must deliver a common message to the various institutions. In concrete terms, it is crucial to review the procedures for honouring the budget votes. The non-execution of the budget, the excessive delay between inclusion in the budget and commitment, and then the payment of appropriations, is a caricature. It is extremely urgent to find ad hoc procedures to restore credibility to the Commission's activities. That means we must review the procedures and fix realistic objectives so that the backlog can be cleared rapidly and the delay between commitments and payments, which undermines the credibility of a large part of the budget, can be reduced. We must also provide for the suspension of contracts if there is no longer any consistency between budget appropriations and political commitments, and for paying subsidies and commitments at an early date. The credibility of the Commission, and therefore of the European Union, depends on its ability to reform its financial management systems very quickly. In the medium term, it is essential to fine-tune the budgetary procedures and ensure closer consultation between the budgetary authority and the Commission at the beginning of each financial year. That will avoid our plunging into the great difficulties we experienced in November and December and into situations that do not enable Parliament's political expectations to be translated correctly or allow for the real modernisation of the functioning of the Commission. An annual evaluation of the changes in the functioning of the Commission and of the additional cost of this reform requires consultation at the beginning of each financial year. That measure will take time, but it is inevitable and crucial to the reform. The introduction of global management by project must be accompanied by a new nomenclature to ensure transparent management. We are very much in favour of that. We will make sure that all the technical provisions can be implemented on the basis of full respect for Parliament's rights as an arm of the budgetary authority. Our committee was very pleased to see the conclusions of the Bourlanges report on externalisation taken up in the Letter of Amendment. However, in regard to commitology, the Member States all too often promote national interests that are at odds with those of the Community and consultation of their committees slows down the decision-making process and increases the cost. So the reform must provide an opportunity to restrict their intervention solely to areas where no expenditure is involved. I shall not dwell on the question of human resources since Mr Harbour has addressed it. The Commission's human resources are obviously not up to the new tasks entrusted to it, in addition to those it will have to assume in the future, and the redeployment proposed in the Letter of Amendment, which only relates to 4% of staff, will not resolve the human resources problem either. In accepting the substance of the Letter of Amendment during the budgetary consultation procedure last Thursday, the Council proved that the other arm of the budgetary authority did in fact wish to support the reform of our Commission. The questions of audit, management and financial control are basically dealt with in Mr Pomés Ruiz's report. The Commission's position on the recasting of the Financial Regulation has been known since 22 November. We expressed our views on the reform of the fast-track procedure in the vote on the van Hulten report. Yet we would point out again that it is absolutely vital to guarantee independent financial control. Moreover, it is totally illogical for the Council alone to be able to amend the Financial Regulation and we repeat our call for conciliation on this issue. The reform of the Commission is crucial to the future of our institutions. The working method chosen by the Conference of Presidents, which some found rather risky, took time. But looking at the four reports as a whole, this period of consultation has allowed us to take both a broader and a closer view, which has increased the value of Parliament's opinion. This report looks at the very first steps in the reform of the Commission, a major project aimed at the genuinely modern management of the Union. It will be followed by many other reports and, for my part, after these weeks of working together, I hope we adhere to this method in future too. I want to give particular thanks to the other three rapporteurs, for I really appreciated the way we worked and the clarity of their positions. The differences of view that emerged are not just political but more a reflection of the cultural differences between the Fifteen. They show that the very different approaches to the management of the public service we see every day in the different EU institutions, as also in our political groups. The implementation of this reform clearly reflects the difficulties we are facing, but we know that this exercise, however difficult, is a vital one. Together, we have contributed to this first stage that is crucial for the political future of the Union; we have modernised its management to make it more transparent and therefore bring it closer to our citizens, so as to convince them more firmly that their only future lies in a stronger European Union. –  Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Andria for his work, on behalf of my group. This is a complex subject and Mr Andria used all the means available to him to reach a compromise. Our group is highly satisfied with his working methods and the results he has achieved. The report, as voted on in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, is very well-balanced. We would like to add two minor amendments designed to clarify the text rather than change the content. I shall not repeat the importance of our work in establishing an integrated financial market at European level. Parliament has already examined some aspects of this market and imposed some of the extremely numerous common rules which will be necessary for it to function properly. A single, transparent framework for clearing and settlement is part of these essential rules. That is why, in parallel with our work on the directive on investment services, Parliament is asking the Commission for a draft directive on clearing and settlement. In the absence of any form of regulation, the market players have organised themselves to create a system which, although it does function, is far from ideal. Furthermore, this system naturally tends towards the establishment of a private monopoly and distortions of competition due to confusion between the differing functions of infrastructures and banks. We cannot seriously accept this. We could, of course, as some Members are proposing, allow the market to organise itself. We could also shoulder our responsibilities as co-legislators and ask the Commission to lay down rules ensuring transparency and free competition. Everyone here knows that the markets cannot achieve a healthy balance unless they are organised transparently and safely. That is not currently the case, and that is what my group is asking for. We support the rapporteur on three essential points. First, the removal of all barriers to the creation of a single market for clearing and settlement. These barriers, whether technical, fiscal or legal, obstruct the finalisation of individual cross-border transactions and must be removed. Secondly, free, transparent competition. We call for open, fair access to settlement infrastructures. We believe these settlement infrastructures should be considered as a service of general interest. That should not prejudice their private or public status, but allow them to be run as non-profit-making bodies and be accessible without discrimination to all users. Lastly, we must put an end to the current state of confusion between commercial and non-commercial functions. We cannot accept that some players, driven solely by the prospect of profit, expose the non-commercial functions to the risks inherent in banking. This seems particularly relevant at a time when the United States are stepping up measures to protect their market. That is why our group will support Mr Andria’s request for clear separation of roles. That way we will protect our markets and put an end to the dumping that is often concealed in the confusion. The European Commission has asked us to speak on this matter. If we are to fulfil our role as colegislator, it is not enough to present the Commission with a recommendation that is devoid of any content. For this reason, our group will reject all the amendments that are nothing more than delaying tactics and will support the rapporteur in his clear, constructive positions. We have tabled two amendments, whose principal aim is to clarify the text voted in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and which do not take anything away from the text. We simply believe that the wording of the current paragraph 11 no longer corresponds to the state of market forces and would lead to excessive disruption if settlement services had to be the property of their users. We have also taken the liberty of adding to the compromise adopted by all the groups on paragraph 12 our concern for transparency and the exercise of free competition. I do not think that should pose a problem to my fellow Members. – Mr President, after the recent events in Dover, when 29 illegal Chinese immigrants suffocated to death, the tragedy of illegal immigration and the methods of responding to it have become a considerable problem, which the European Union must definitely tackle. This problem requires us to work on a particularly sensitive issue, that of shaping and harmonising a European immigration policy. This will be one of the major issues of the twenty-first century. The European Commission’s draft directive establishing the right to family reunification is perfectly timed, and I would like to congratulate the Commission particularly on this text, which was drawn up under the auspices of Commissioner Vitorino. The right to family reunification is crucial to normal family life. What is more, this right has long existed in the form of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, according to which all persons have the right to family life. But this is a particularly sensitive issue in view of the different laws existing in the various Member States, as it can come into conflict with notions of sovereignty. But that is the gauntlet that has been thrown down to the European Parliament, which must succeed in transcending these differences. The draft directive we are being asked to give our opinion on today is, in my view, a text of major importance, and it must receive the firm backing of the European Parliament. This text holds out real prospects for legal immigration, most of which is family immigration. As has already been said, this directive is the first example of this type of structure resulting from the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere European Council, which is why it is so important. I would also like to point out that the modern world has many advantages, but for certain categories of people, including foreigners, there is a significant risk of exclusion. It is our duty as European democrats to be particularly diligent in this matter. The directive proposed by the Commission enables us to take a major step forward, under conditions that are entirely satisfactory, but with all the necessary guarantees. There has never been any question of authorising polygamous family groupings, contrary to what I have just heard. This is utterly false. Let us remember that this is the first text in the process of integrating the ‘justice and internal affairs’ pillar into community policy in the wake of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere European Council last November. Let us also remember that this is no more and no less than a matter of establishing the right to family reunification and that we must stop seeing family reunification as a privilege. As far as we are concerned, what is at stake is the construction of a Citizens’ Europe, something we are hoping and praying for in order to be able to continue to build Europe. It is up to us to seize this opportunity. Otherwise we will not succeed. –  Commissioner, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should firstly like to confess that I am confused as to the relevance of this debate, at this late hour, when the Council is very close to reaching an agreement on the Commission’s proposal regarding the plan for a European agency to manage external borders, and when it provides for a series of amendments that are diametrically opposed to the position proposed by Parliament in Mr von Boetticher’s report. I should also like to point out that these documents illustrate, once again, how difficult it is to establish genuine cooperation between Parliament and the Council, as is still all too often the case. The consultation procedure becomes a battleground, in which the two sides do not compete on an equal footing; two approaches finally square up in these documents, and the one in favour of citizens’ rights is doomed to defeat. Parliament proposes, on the one hand, that this agency should be given a less intergovernmental structure, with the composition of these bodies, which would involve the Commission more in the aim of greater effectiveness. On the other hand, the Council is preparing to meet the wishes of the Member States that each should have a representative on the Administrative Board, which will naturally damage the effectiveness that we had wanted the agency to have. This is severely disappointing. The Council’s intransigence is made all the more serious by the fact that it affects the protection of human rights. We believe that the new agency’s responsibilities must not include the expulsion of people from third countries living illegally in Member States. Unfortunately, the Council does not share this opinion, and it does not appear to have any intention of changing its position. What grounds does it have for putting such a measure in place? Can it really be said that the EU has a common policy on asylum and immigration that would justify this proposal? I feel that the answer to this question is clearly ‘no’ – this common policy does not exist, at least not yet. To my mind, we will not take the EU forward by going down the road of a totally repressive policy aimed at speeding up cooperation between Member States in repatriating illegal immigrants. It strikes me that the Council would be better advised to put its mind to the complex, yet absolutely vital task of analysing the causes of migratory flows and the reasons why large numbers of people leave their countries of origin. Given that we have not approached this analysis collectively, I feel that the measures that we are going to take will partly be in vain. –  Mr President, many things have already been said, but I would like to take this opportunity to condemn Europe’s lack of unity with regard to the particularly sensitive issue of harmonising the asylum and immigration policies, an issue which is all too often supplanted by that of combating illegal immigration. Is it worthwhile refreshing the failing memory of our governments of Article 63 of the Treaty, which defines the process leading to the harmonisation and communitarisation of questions related to the right to asylum and immigration? I wish, for my part, to express my frustration at the pious hopes that we hear in each statement made by Council representatives on these issues, when, in reality, obviously, no EU Member State actually wishes to share with its neighbours one of the prerogatives of national sovereignty, namely the admittance of foreigners to its territory. Until now, the proposed measures have mainly been focused on the question of illegal immigration. On the question of establishing proper procedures for immigration, there has been a lack of consultation with the European Parliament, on the one hand, and a lack of agreement between the governments of the Fifteen on the other. After the Tampere Summit in October 1999, however, the Commission approached the task with a positive outlook. We believe that it is impossible to discuss combating illegal immigration unless we also consider proper procedures for immigration and the conditions for integrating foreigners. We need a global approach, this has been pointed out. It is essential. It is not a fortress Europe that we want. To sum up, I shall say that the lack of political will on the part of the EU countries leads us to confirm that we still have a great deal of work to do before we achieve the European area of freedom, security and justice which was, in fact, one of the fundamental themes of the Treaty of Amsterdam. Mr President, I would first like to stress the importance of this report, and in contrast to what some fellow Members have just said, to say how courageous it is to identify countries guilty of failure to respect the most basic human rights. I say that because, unfortunately, we have to recognise that Mr Sylla's report is full of such examples, and it is not enough for us as Members of the European Parliament to denounce violations of fundamental rights in countries outside the EU if we do not point the finger at violations in our own countries. Our good name is at stake here. Furthermore, the conclusions of the report are extremely important as regards the other challenges we face. For example, the current economic crisis and the many redundancies associated with it mean that we have to be particularly vigilant about respecting social rights. For example, we are unfortunately having to contend with the closure of an assembly plant in the Somme region of France. Recent events both in France and in other European companies also demonstrate that the freedom of the press is often violated. That certainly happened during the summer heatwave. On an entirely different point, I would also like to support what some of the previous speakers have said: if the war on terror is to be legitimate, it should not involve flouting the most basic rights. To conclude, Mr President, given that the Annual Report on Human Rights is the fourth of its kind, I would like to ask the same question as my colleague Mrs Swiebel: what is the human rights situation, and what changes has the report brought about? –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am absolutely amazed by what I have just heard Mr Pirker say, and I will explain why. As far as I am concerned, I first wish to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Buitenweg, on her report, which, contrary to what has just been said, is well balanced. I have witnessed the fact that this was not easy, given the particularly animated debates which the issue aroused when it was considered by our committee. As Mrs Buitenweg pointed out, it really is necessary to take stock of the effectiveness of the existing conventions and also the appropriateness of reclassifying narcotic drugs. By way of an example, I would point out that Article 3 of the Single Convention classifies over 100 substances into four tables, the first of which groups opium, heroin, cocaine, cannabis and methadone in the same category. Is this really logical? I would put this question to Mr Pirker. It must also be said that the Buitenweg report in no way seeks to make short work of the issue of decriminalising drugs, even soft drugs, but addresses solely and exclusively two issues: the effectiveness and relevance of the current system and the need to reclassify substances. Nevertheless, reclassification of substances on no account means proposing the non-prescription sale of cannabis or its further legalisation. I defy Mr Pirker to demonstrate to the House that this is one of the proposals in Mrs Buitenweg’s report. I would equally point out, that two months ago, this very institution adopted the Malliori report, which specifically said that drugs should be classified on a scientific basis, according to their health risks. Mrs Buitenweg, moreover, expressly referred to this document and I fully support her here today. Are we going to continue to refer to conventions, the first of which dates back to 1961 and the most recent to1988? We feel that the time has come to evaluate these instruments. I repeat that the report is well balanced, that it makes ample and meticulous reference to the risks of drug addiction and that on no account does it encourage the use of narcotic drugs. On this point, I again defy Mr Pirker and some of his fellow members in the PPE-DE Group to find any paragraphs containing the slightest encouragement for drug addicts. Under no circumstances does this report seek to minimise the risks associated with drugs and the harm they cause and, in my opinion, there are no grounds for specifically upsetting the balance in Mrs Buitenweg’s report which it was difficult but right to obtain. I therefore hope that we can achieve the broadest support possible for this report, in order to make real headway in our common desire to repair the damage caused by drug addiction. . Mr President, I wanted to indicate that I am in favour of sending this text back to the committee. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Rühle, on the work that has been done on the basis of her report, which is, I believe, a useful complement to the work of the European Commission. We know that citizenship of the Union should serve to involve more and more of the people of the Member States in the common project for European integration. Sadly, it is an undeniable fact that there are still many obstacles to overcome before European citizenship can become a reality. This is why the Rühle report, in its technical aspects, is actually an eminently political report, because it provides a channel through which we can support those bodies that are working to promote active European citizenship. It is absolutely essential that the public is better informed about what the European Union is doing to harmonise national policies and what it will be doing in the context of enlargement. Efforts are also needed to improve the promotion of current initiatives. This applies, for example, to the European Info-Points, whose networked operations meet with general satisfaction. Let me declare most solemnly here that the European Parliament has tried to deal with the financial threats facing the Info-Points and that a solution must be found quickly. I believe that this is now being done, but nothing is absolutely certain yet. The concept of European citizenship must therefore be applied in all its dimensions: political, administrative, judicial, social and economic. We must therefore continue to work towards the removal of those obstacles – and they do still exist – which are preventing the people of our countries from exercising their rights as European citizens. In the year 2000, as has already been mentioned, the Charter of Fundamental Rights finally put the citizen at the heart of the process of European integration process. Public involvement in the creation of the draft European constitution is another step in this direction. It was high time, for how is it possible to engage in politics at the European level, and indeed nationally and locally too, without making people the focus of all deliberations, of all welfare measures and of all social planning? The public must become active players rather than mere passive spectators, as is still too often the case. It will obviously be even more difficult to communicate with the citizens of Europe when the population of the Union rises to almost 500 million from the present figure of 370 million, but that is precisely what we must do, using all the facilities that will enable us to conduct and enhance that dialogue. I shall conclude by recalling that one of the points highlighted by the report is this very lack of information, resulting in the stunted development of a sense of European citizenship. This is reflected, and regrettably so, in the turnout for European elections, which averages less than 50%  a shocking state of affairs. As the red-letter days of June 2004 draw near, it is therefore more essential than ever to strengthen the information and communication policy of the European Union by every available means. The challenge is truly formidable: it is a matter of building a genuinely political Europe, a genuine people’s Europe. .  Mr President, in this report, I propose rejection of the Italian initiative organising joint flights for the removal of illegal nationals, and I do so for two reasons. Firstly and fundamentally, the main point of my report is to emphasise that the European States cannot just extend the repressive aspect of the asylum and immigration policy, while, at the same time, neglecting whole sections of it regarding legal immigration and the integration of nationals from developing countries who have legally settled in our countries. Moreover, this initiative proposed by Italy does not at all constitute added value for European action in this area. I would like to say formally here that the mass returns are a lamentable practice ...  … that should be used only exceptionally, while this initiative would tend to make more general, and therefore commonplace, this type of measure. Furthermore, it seems to me truly deplorable that the only elements constituting a guarantee for the preservation of the rights of the expelled persons are, in this resolution, placed in a non-binding appendix, which is particularly revealing of the Council’s intention to build a Europe that is nothing but a fortress. Finally, on its form, the Council may not, as it has done, disregard Parliament's opinion on a subject that touches on so many fundamental liberties. Parliament's consultative role, which is already only a formality in this area, would become totally superfluous for proposals of this sort, which proves – if there were still need to do so – the need for reform of our institutions, whose victims are, in the first place, the citizens whom we represent. It is for these reasons that I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject this initiative. – Mr President, at a time when we have all, I hope, been scandalised by Mr Berlusconi’s statements, demonstrating as they do such suspicion and hatred of foreigners, I believe that now, more than ever, it is time to combat racism, and to combat it in all its most insidious forms. The Commission’s communication on a Community immigration policy, and the vote on the Pirker report, give us an opportunity to do just that. In that respect I welcome Mr Vitorino's statements. We must not forget that for Europeans the Tampere Summit in October 1999, which sought fair treatment for nationals of third countries in comparison with citizens of the Union, was a very important event. We must start from one important established fact, which we were reminded of just now: the myth of zero immigration can no longer be a realistic concept, and in any case demographic problems and labour shortages will have to make us change our ideas about immigration. This is why, today, we must give our strong support to the Commission’s communication, because this future Community policy on immigration has a great many virtues, in particular that of combating all forms of criminal activity. It has to be said that the rapporteur, Mr Pirker, has adopted a rather critical position regarding the Commission’s communication. Unlike Mr Pirker, we socialists are convinced that our approach to this question must be a humane approach rather than an economic approach, because we are talking here about the fate of human beings, not about common merchandise. We must also remember, and we can never remember it enough, that if people emigrate and suffer the pain of separation from their country and their loved ones, it is because they are obliged to do so. They are not simply doing it for pleasure. The Commission’s position is fundamental inasmuch as it proposes a framework. I shall end by saying, in addition, that in a European Union which is constantly becoming more integrated, and which now has the benefit of a Charter of Fundamental Rights, no Member State can now claim that its policy on admission is nobody’s business but its own. I therefore reiterate my full and wholehearted support for the Commission’s proposal, at the same time taking a critical view of the content of Mr Pirker’s report. As far as I am concerned, I defer the vote of the French socialist delegation on this report. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted first of all to congratulate my colleague, Carmen Cerdeira, on the excellent work that she has done on this very important issue. Indeed this text constitutes the first directive on legal immigration since competence for this area moved to European level. I should like to say straight away, however, that I regret two things: firstly, that we have had to wait so long; secondly, that the end result is such a cautious position, the unfortunate consequence of a policy that is based exclusively on controlling migratory flows, despite the objectives set in Tampere. After more than three years of fierce negotiations, after two markedly different proposals, despite a European Parliament opinion expressing support for the first proposal and despite the excellent work done by our rapporteur, the text that we have today contains minimal provisions on family reunification and, moreover, the Council will take absolutely no account at all of the European Parliament's opinion, which will nevertheless – at least, I hope so – confirm our previous position. Tampere had, it is true, given us a glimpse of something entirely different, but at this stage it is unfortunately a certainty that the process that was begun in 1999 is turning out contrary to expectations. Parliament really must vote in favour of Mrs Cerdeira's report tomorrow and in so doing clearly express its rejection of a fortress Europe, of the kind that is in the process of being created, and it must also clearly declare its support for the right to live in a family, which is an absolutely essential right in all of our democracies. That is why we will be voting against – and we are against – the provision that allows the Member States, in certain cases, to refuse entry to a child aged over 12 years. We also reject the proposal that authorises a waiting period of three years and we are unfortunately obliged to note that this episode constitutes yet more proof of the lack of political will on the part of the Member States to share competence for immigration. It is not by adopting this kind of overcautious attitude that we are going to resolve the problem of illegal immigration; nor is this the way to avoid secondary movements of asylum seekers, which is nevertheless one of the main objectives of this directive. In short, with the various steps backward in the second directive and the various …  ... we are a very long way from achieving the objectives set in 1999 by the Tampere Summit for bringing this field within the Community system as such. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make things quite clear. The debate is indeed going to take place as scheduled on the agenda and, like everyone in the House, I appreciate its importance. Nonetheless, I suggest that you accept my proposal, which is this: that the debate should take place as scheduled on the agenda and, tomorrow, the sovereign Assembly, after consulting the groups, shall decide whether or not to vote on this report during the present part-session. I think it would not be right to vote on it immediately. Mr Cohn-Bendit, I think you have not been listening to my suggestions carefully enough. I did not suggest that the decision was referred to the Conference of Presidents, which does not have the authority to decide. I suggested reconciling points of view within the groups and then tomorrow, in the House, discussing the timeliness of voting this week. It goes without saying that only the plenary assembly has the right to make this decision. I should now like to put an end to any further speeches on the subject, as I am afraid that discussing the matter ad infinitum is not going to lead to a clear decision. I shall just give the floor to Mrs Ludford, whose group has not yet had an opportunity to comment. – The next item is the report (A5-0010/2000) by Mrs Ahern, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European and Council decision adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of energy efficiency – SAVE (C5-0334/1999 – 1997/0371(COD)). – Thank you, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned. Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Kyoto is clearly one of the major challenges for the 21st century, yet the way that we resolve the issue of climate change may greatly affect future civilisation. Parliament must therefore repeat its formal reservations about the right to pollute system, otherwise known as the flexibility mechanism. If we really want to solve the enormous problem of the greenhouse effect, we cannot operate a system in which everything can be bought and sold, including the right to pollute. This is not true to our values and it will create profound inequalities. We could take as an example the situation in the former Soviet Union, in what is now Russia. This country is in decline and its development is threatened. There is therefore enormous potential for it to trade its rights to pollute. So the Americans, taking advantage of their status as a rich country, and despite having imposed this mechanism on us, supposedly to ensure the application of the Kyoto decisions, are not only not applying these decisions themselves but are also manoeuvring to trade these infamous rights to pollute with Russia. The richest countries can therefore pay to keep the rest under-developed so that they themselves do not have to make the efforts which they could. This is unacceptable and Europe must say so. Regardless of the Americans, Europe must say that it will ratify the Kyoto Protocol without getting involved in the right to pollute system. The Commission must talk to Russia to ensure that it does not engage in these talks with the Americans and so that we can find other ways forward together. Finally, Europe must act within its Member States and at Community level. I would suggest that Europe and the Commission pursue two initiatives. The first concerns the excellent work initiated by Jacques Delors on piggyback transport and the major non-polluting transport infrastructures to replace the lorry and the car. This work must finally be taken forward with financing from the European Union. The second, in the car sector, involves establishing a renewal strategy for old cars, in addition to the standards which we have adopted, given that these cars produce considerably more pollution than newer vehicles. Thank you, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. – The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - B5-0607/2000 by Mr Speroni, on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members, on Fiji; - B5-0616/2000 by Mrs Ludford, on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on the situation in Fiji and the Solomon Islands; - B5-0620/2000 by Mr Corrie and Mr Johan Van Hecke, on behalf of the Europe People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the situation in Fiji and the Solomon Islands; - B5-0629/2000 by Mr Marset Campos, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, on the situation in Fiji and the Solomon Islands; - B5-0636/2000 by Mrs Lucas, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on the situation in Fiji; - B5-0640/2000 by Mrs Lucas, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on the situation in the Solomon Islands; - B5-0644/2000 by Mr van den Berg and Mrs Kinnock, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on Fiji and the Solomon Islands. – I give the floor to Mr Gollnisch on a point of order. – The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. –  Mr President, I have a question about the method applied here. It seems to me that, normally, when the sitting resumes and we resume the vote after a formal sitting, a bell sounds to warn our colleagues that the sitting and the vote are resuming. I did not hear that bell and I would ask you to confirm the method used in such cases, for this probably adversely affected the result of the vote in this Chamber. Mr Schulz, we have noted your statement. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. The next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (A5-0086/2000) by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the European Parliament’s proposals for the Intergovernmental Conference (14094/1999 – C5-0341/1999 – 1999/0825(CNS)). . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that together we have produced a useful piece of work in this water framework directive. We have produced a useful piece of work; it may be a collective compromise, but it is a compromise which incorporates stringent requirements, which I think will clear the way for a qualitative and quantitative leap in water management. In the long term, our fellow European citizens must enjoy high quality water everywhere, whether surface or groundwater. This compromise was made possible by active commitment, by the balance of power that the European Parliament was able to create, by the participation of all the groups, in particular the shadow rapporteurs who assisted me, and by Mr Provan, the chairman of our delegation in this difficult conciliation procedure. I would, however, also like to thank the other participants who are, of course, the Commission, which had to play the role of intermediary and technical innovator, and did so extremely rigorously and effectively, the Commissioner and also all the staff of the Commission. I would also like to thank the Council, especially the Portuguese Presidency and their Minister of State, Mr Pedro Silva Perreira, who made this agreement possible. I have all the more reason for saying this, because this directive certainly requires a greater effort on the part of the southern European countries than it does from other Community countries with easier access to water. In which areas has significant progress been made? Firstly, the directive is strictly binding in legislative terms. Second, the implementation of measures concerning the issue that we in Parliament considered absolutely crucial, that is the elimination of priority hazardous substances and a complete end to discharges of such substances. You are aware that this House wanted our directive to be compatible with the commitments given under international conventions, in particular OSPAR, as stated in the directive. The arrangements introduced will clear the way for a list of priority substances to be gradually drawn up every 4 years, that is, priority substances which must be reduced in quantity, and priority hazardous substances, which must purely and simply be eliminated. Third, there was the important and sensitive matter of groundwater. We were faced with the problem of producing a rigorous definition of what we called good groundwater status. In order for this good status to be specified, it was decided that a ‘daughter’ directive should be drawn up, that is, a directive that will implement the framework directive. Parliament was rather afraid that the new directive would provide an opportunity to delay requirements to combat pollution and immediate measures to prevent the pollution of groundwater. This is why we wanted, and secured, the stipulation, first of all, that if the directive were not approved by the Members of the European Parliament, the Member States would draw up rules guaranteeing good groundwater status. If the Member States did not do this – it is a kind of Sword of Damocles – if 75% of the level laid down in the applicable pollution standards governing good groundwater status is reached, then the Member States will have to reverse the trend. In general, the directive takes account of Parliament's determination to ensure that action by the Member States enables any upward trends in the pollution of groundwater to be reversed. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that in this way we have come up with a system that enables us to make significant progress, and not just in terms of the main principles, but also in the overall effectiveness of the decisions that have been made. Nonetheless, we shall all have to be vigilant. Firstly with regard to all the daughter directives, which will implement the framework directive. We shall be involved in the codecision procedure to determine the list of priority substances and priority hazardous substances. A first report has already been examined by the Commission and a rapporteur has been appointed. The second major task for this House will be the substance of the framework directive on groundwater. In short, I think we have done the bulk of the work. We will continue to work together, but I have a feeling that at the dawn of the 21st century, with this framework directive, Europe is entering a new age where the protection of water, that most fundamental resource, will become a priority in terms of policy and the behaviour of all those involved, whether they be farmers, industrialists or consumers. In any event, this is the intention of our directive and I have no doubt that the Commission and the Member States will ensure that it is implemented. Mr Barón Crespo, the problem is that the text is still not available in French, Spanish and Swedish, thus presenting a problem in terms of our Rules of Procedure. That is why the Bureau proposed this solution. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. – The next item is the report (A5-0377/2000) by Mr Trakatellis, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, concerning the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council extending certain programmes of Community action in the field of public health adopted by Decisions 645/96/EC, 646/96/EC, 647/96/EC, 102/97/EC, 1400/97/EC and 1296/1999/EC and amending those Decisions [COM(2000)0448 – C5-0400/2000 – 2000/0192(COD)]. Mr Bautista Ojeda, your speech will be passed on to Mrs Fontaine who I am sure will handle it with the utmost attention. – That is what I propose, Mr Savary. . –  I abstained from the vote on Mr Brok’s report because the fundamental question of our peoples’ agreement to EMU was never raised. Consequently, in most Member States, neither the citizens not the parliaments have deliberated on the principle and conditions of enlargement. The issue of time limits is crucial both for the citizens of the countries of the East and for the European Union. A number of major preliminary conditions must be lifted. Until the definition of a political and social Europe is made clear, not only in order to overcome the obstacle of the proper technical operation of the decision to be taken at 23 months but also in order to define the framework of the values, common social and citizenship models, enlargement will entail running more risks than it creates opportunities. There is a risk of the European Union being watered down politically and of social dumping, and, lastly, that the project of European integration will be reduced to the creation of one large marketplace, an area of free competition. That particular plan is one that the public rejects. It is a dangerous route. A headlong rush into enlargement, under such conditions, would be liable to aggravate the sidelong shifts towards the populist and fascistic which are appearing here and there. As a matter of urgency, we must unambiguously consult the national parliaments and the citizens. As a matter of urgency, we must review the time schedule. As a matter of urgency, we must set a framework for social convergence, harmonising social standards upwards. As a matter of urgency, we must intensify political cohesion and give the Charter of fundamental rights a legal status. Enlargement must be considered in this new context and a transition strategy must be defined. – The next item is the report (A5-0356/2000) by Mrs Honeyball, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on summer time arrangements [COM(2000)0302 – C5-0322/2000-2000/0140(COD)]. – The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. The next item is the following oral questions: - B5-0560/2000 by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, to the Council, on the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, - B5-0825/2000 by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, to the Commission, on the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. – That concludes voting time. All the arguments have been expressed on the subject of this postponement. I maintain my position and I now suggest that we move straight on to the debate on Fiji and the Solomon islands, as that is what our fellow Members are waiting for. Ladies and gentlemen, I put it to you that we decide as follows: we shall carry on the debate as scheduled on the agenda and tomorrow, the House will consider whether the vote should be retained as scheduled, after consultation with the various groups. – The Council clearly has no intention of answering you, Mrs Breyer. I suppose you could contact the representative outside the House between now and 12.30 p.m. tomorrow, as the vote is taking place tomorrow. – That concludes the voting. – Thank you, Commissioner. I think we can also thank the rapporteur once again. The debate is closed. The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow. The proposed action and programme presented by Mr Prodi are vague in the extreme and the social question is missing yet again. In fact, the word seems to have been banished from the Commission’s vocabulary, whereas liberal and American references abound. Mr Prodi reverts to the contested concept of ‘governance’; contested because it favours state intervention over a proper working democracy and refers to the notion as defined by the IMF, whose ideological agenda is predicated solely on liberalism and monetarism. The shift in meaning is not just semantic… The only logical thing to do on reading this document is to pursue the mass market and generalised deregulation and forget about the realignment of European policy which our citizens hoped for. Mr Prodi talks solely of ‘mechanisms’ and ‘structures’ and fails to set out a single balanced project which responds to the aspirations of our people. Enlargement appears to be an end in itself, but unless decisions are made on a social policy, a common value and an institution to strengthen the cohesion and democratisation of the Union, the Europe bequeathed to us at the end of Mr Prodi’s presidency may well be a simple common market area within the context of generalised globalisation, rather than the community of destiny which we hope for. Finally, Mr Prodi’s complacency towards the Austrian Government in the name of an exaggerated sense of protocol (which in no way obliges him to send a message of congratulations) would in itself warrant a vote of no confidence. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. –  We shall vote against the report that Mr Bowe presented on behalf of the Conciliation Committee, since the revision of Directive 90/200 on deliberate release of GMOs has not met its anticipated objectives. Yet, with regard to a question that is so fundamentally important to our citizens, the European Parliament should have reached agreement on all the issues that were raised and on the simultaneous implementation of all the measures which safeguard the precautionary principle. Admittedly, some progress has been made on the previous directive (such as exemptions for pharmaceutical products and renewal of authorisation). However, we would not want to accept a directive that did not ensure traceability, labelling or the responsibility of producers. How can we contemplate releasing GMOs if manufacturers do not accept their full liability and if we do not have a directive which regulates the issue of traceability and labelling of GMOs. The Commission has made known its intention to table draft directives – but when will these be approved? What provisions will they lay down? We cannot vote on the release of GMOs without these guarantees. We should bear in mind the consequences of the BSE crisis, the precautionary principle, our standards regarding food safety and inevitable risks of spreading disease to other crops, in addition to the effects on human health. At any rate, five Member States have already stated their determination to retain a strict ban on putting GMOs on the market in the future, even if the revision of the directive should be approved, and I would like to congratulate them. This draft directive constitutes more of a threat because of what it omits rather than what it contains. During the conciliation procedure, the European Parliament did, however, insist on clear labelling and traceability rules for GMOs, which are essential for consumers who can only take a decision about whether to buy products containing GMOs if these products are properly labelled. This then really is a fool’s bargain. It is more important for the precautionary principle to take precedence over the commercial interests of various multinational companies and that the protection of European consumers is the only aspect that we take into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the importance of this discussion, but I propose entering the debate on the agenda for tomorrow, as the Bureau wished. I suggest that the Conference of Presidents or, at any event, the groups, should come to some agreement on the procedure to be adopted regarding voting after the debate, and that our final decision on the timing of the vote should be postponed until tomorrow. May I take it that the various group presidents and Members of Parliament agree in principle, as I am afraid that if I give the floor to every Member who requests it we shall be starting the whole debate up again? – I want to thank the President and the Commissioner for their understanding. The debate is closed. The vote will take place on Thursday at12 noon. – The next item is the report (A5-0283/2000) by Mrs Peijs, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament on retail payments in the single market [COM(2000) 0036 – C5-0103/2000 – 2000/2018(COS)]. – That will be corrected, Mrs Lambert, and now I propose that we move on to the vote. - Mr Ribeiro e Castro, your views will certainly be conveyed to the Council and to the President. – I have received four motions for a resolution, tabled pursuant to Rule 40(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Commissioner. I shall convey your wish that the rapporteurs should be quickly appointed for the files you mentioned to my colleagues in the Bureau and to the appropriate committees. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:  - B5-0611/2000 by Mrs Ludford, on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on the abduction of children in the north of Uganda; - B5-0622/2000 by Mr Mauro and others, on behalf of the Group of the Europe People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the abduction of children by the LRA; - B5-0630/2000 by Mr Sylla and Mr Vinci, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, on Uganda; - B5-0637/2000 by Mrs Maes and Mrs Lambert, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on the abduction of children in Uganda; - B5-0646/2000 by Mr van den Berg, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the abduction of children in Uganda;  - B5-0609/2000 by Mr Belder, on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on the Moluccas; - B5-0612/2000 by Mr Maaten, on behalf of the group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on the Moluccas; - B5-0623/2000 by Mrs Maij-Weggen, on behalf of the Group of the Europe People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the Moluccas; - B5-0643/2000 by Mrs McKenna and Mrs Langendijk, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on the Moluccas; - B5-0647/2000 by Mr van den Berg, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the Moluccas;  - B5-0613/2000 by Mrs Malmström, Mr Haarder and Mr Watson, on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on the death penalty in the United States and the case of the Italian-American citizen Derek Rocco Barnabei; - B5-0619/2000 by Mr Dupuis and others, on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members – Mixed Group, on the forthcoming execution of Derek Rocco Barnabei in Virginia; - B5-0624/2000 by Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra and others, on behalf of the Group of the Europe People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the death penalty in the United States; - B5-0631/2000 by Mr Cossutta and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, on the death penalty in the United States and the case of Mr Derek Rocco Barnabei; - B5-0638/2000 by Mrs Maes and others, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on the death penalty; - B5-0648/2000 by Mr Veltroni and Mrs Díez González, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the death penalty in the United States and in particular the case of Rocco Barnabei;  - B5-0625/2000 by Mr Van Hecke and others, on behalf of the Group of the Europe People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on hooliganism during Euro 2000; - B5-0632/2000 by Mr Papayannakis, Mr Sylla and Mr Cossutta, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left – Nordic Green Left, on hooliganism during Euro 2000; - B5-0649/2000 by Mr Desama and Mr van den Berg, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on hooliganism during Euro 2000;  - B5-0614/2000 by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on Iraq; - B5-0618/2000 by Mrs Muscardini and Mr Andrews, on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group, on Iraq; - B5-626/2000 by Mr Khanbhai and others, on behalf of the Group of the Europe People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on Iraq; - B5-633/2000 by Mrs Morgantini and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, on Iraq; - B5-0639/2000 by Mrs McKenna and others, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on the United Nations embargo in Iraq; - B5-0650/2000 by Mr Sakellariou, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the situation in Iraq; Madam President, please note that the French socialists in the House will not take part in the vote as we consider that the tabled motion is not impartial. We do want the environmental directives to be applied and integrated into European policies but this must involve all the directives and not just the Natura 2000 and migratory birds directives. We also consider that the application of directives is the responsibility of the law, the Commission and the Court of Justice. We do not therefore wish to take part in this vote which we regard as partisan. Thank you, Commissioner. I think our President will have taken note of the joint requests from the Commission and Members of Parliament that a trialogue should be convened in short order, and I shall not fail to alert her to the fact. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, water will be one of the main environmental and world issues of the twenty-first century. Climate change, global resources, river quality and groundwater aquifer quality are major challenges which threaten our common future. We will either be able to restore water quality to suit the planet’s ecosystem or we will experience a whole range of adverse events which will threaten the development of certain regions, the living conditions of the inhabitants of other regions and even, more fundamentally, the global balance. To support this statement, I would point to an excellent report drafted by our colleague, Mário Soares, in the international bodies on the state of the seas and oceans. When talking about climate change, we have rightly referred to the greenhouse effect and the state of the atmosphere. Yet we also know that the deterioration of the oceans will significantly destabilise whole areas of our planet. Europe must therefore lead by example to some extent, both because it must promote a certain development model and because it is itself facing serious problems of pollution and deterioration of its waters, including its groundwater, surface waters and seas. Furthermore, Europe has signed international conventions, in particular the OSPAR Convention in which it made certain commitments. In this it said that in a few years’ time we must have stopped dumping pollution and halted the increase of pollution and we must have reached a near zero level of toxic and dangerous substances. Despite having signed these international agreements, this directive and the specific policies in the field reveal that Europe cannot achieve the objectives set or must defer these for so long that the very credibility of its signature of these international conventions is threatened. This is why in the debate on the framework directive on water policy, the European Parliament has since the first reading demanded coherence between the framework directive and the international objectives, particularly with regard to respect for OSPAR. This convergence must be effective and specific and must commit us to action. The European Union’s water policy is not starting from zero. Many directives have already been adopted. Furthermore, the Commission wants to make these directives more understandable and more compatible with each other and to give them clearer objectives. The preparation of this framework directive is therefore prompted by a desire for rationalisation. However, at first reading this House insisted that the current directive should not only be compatible with the commitments made, like OSPAR, but should allow us to reverse the course of affairs. For despite these directives and frequent declarations about the effort which must be made in terms of water protection, when we look at the state of the environment in Europe we can see that the objectives have not been achieved. In many cases the situation has deteriorated and we therefore cannot settle for just rationalisation of the texts. We must set objectives which are equal to the challenges facing us. Yet we do not have much time. We could, as the Commission has proposed, accept these overlong deadlines which the Commission and the Council have extended even further. Yet if we do, we will not only have a credibility problem with the general public, but these efforts will be postponed until tomorrow and then tomorrow they will be deferred again. It is clear that in this event the objectives will never be achieved. I am stressing this point because, when disasters are being reported daily in the news, we cannot just keep on saying for the umpteenth time that Europe did not act when it should have done. Then, in our haste, we act as if we will solve the problems which we refused to tackle properly at the appropriate time. The current example of the Danube and the pollution from Rumania shows very clearly that if we fail to establish a new method of economic development, clear requirements, controls and precise measures concerning the state of our rivers, this type of incident will not only occur again but will do so increasingly over time. It is also clear that if we do nothing, our agriculture will continue to develop in a very unbalanced manner. Even now, the rivers in Brittany are eutrophying and this is damaging tourism. To conclude, the issues are clear at this second reading. Do we or do we not want standards compatible with OSPAR, in other words to get dangerous substances down to zero? Do we want to shorten the deadlines proposed by the Council for this directive? Do we want to have a pricing policy which enables all public and private participants to clean up and save water? Do we seriously want to respond to the hopes of our peoples? The majority of the amendments approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection meet these objectives. I hope they will be supported by this House. I voted against this text which does no more than set the stage for a new round of deregulation in the telecommunications sector, without the least consideration for public services or the services of general economic interest even though they are provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam. In the absence of any framework directive to protect these public services which are essential to regional planning and to citizens’ equal access to these services, I reject any further liberalisation. Moreover, the reports drawn up within Parliament on the implementation of opening the telecommunications sector up to competition revealed that, in virtually all countries, even the meagre, restricted universal telecommunications service could not be guaranteed. At the same time, the profits of major multinationals in the telecommunications sector are soaring, while subscriptions and local communications are becoming an increasing drain on the budgets of the poorest individuals. The report does not introduce cheap and simple access, guaranteed to everybody, wherever they are, to Internet services as part of the provision of a universal service, thus showing that we are light years away from what a modern public service ought to be, in the age of the e-economy. It is high time, however, that we put this fine European idea into practice. In pursuing the interests of untrammelled competition, the European Parliament does itself no credit. –  Madam President, the European Union was built upon the idea ‘never again’, meaning never again do we want to see xenophobia, concentration camps, anti-Semitism, heightened nationalism or war. The one and only significance of the European Union is the will to transcend the atrocious history of the twentieth century which gave the  to any ideal of humanism within the heart of Europe, and which is still highly topical today. It is not true to say that, when a government forms an alliance with neo-Fascists somewhere in Europe, this is merely a question of national sovereignty. For this Union of ours is not a grouping of neighbouring nation states who are simply coming to mutual arrangements to improve their collective circumstances. It is a Community that is destined to exist, in which, when the main thing is under threat, when values are under threat, all democrats must bend over backwards to find solutions to ensure that the mistakes of the past are never made again. Let us learn the lessons of the past. In the thirties, when Adolf Hitler was democratically elected, although with a minority, many people thought that it was not as bad as all that and, Mr Poettering, in France, a number of men and women, on the right wing but perhaps of other political persuasions too, thought, ‘Better Hitler in France than the .’ They put their own petty squabbles first, and the rest is history. We must make a rapid, strong and united response. I would have liked to hear your discussion with the Austrian President, Mr Poettering. We are well aware that he is very embarrassed today at the dirty deal that government has done in forming such an alliance. So our response must be rapid and strong. Of course, the Treaty provides us with a barrier when things become intolerable; I was almost going to say ‘irreparable’. History has taught us that Fascists start to blow hot and cold: using heated words first, in populist, xenophobic speeches, and then cool words in order to make themselves acceptable to institutions and to infiltrate them gradually, poisoning them, until the day they start to take action. And when that day comes, it is too late. So our Treaty has made provision for barriers for the time when it is too late, but we are not at that point: today we have to take steps to ensure that we do not get to that point. We must therefore find a political solution. I support the Council proposals in this, while deploring a certain lack of strength, a certain spinelessness, on the part of the Commission which will, however, have to be vigilant on a day-by-day basis, with determination over time, since Fascists count on the spinelessness of democracy, they count on time to wear us down and they hope to impose their views in the end. Our response must be rapid. If today we do not staunchly support the Council, then history will judge us, saying that we achieved the political equivalent of the Munich Agreement. – The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. –The next item is the report (A5-0273/2000) by Mr Jové Peres, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 2200/96 on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 on the common organisation of the market in processed fruit and vegetables and Regulation (EC) No 2202/96 introducing a Community aid scheme for producers of certain citrus fruits [COM(2000)433 – C5-0391/2000 – 2000/0191(CNS)] – I share your point of view. Ideally, our Chamber ought to be able to have the debate after familiarising itself with all the documents and amendments. I nonetheless think that, as you have indicated, we can, in the present circumstances, enter into the debate in the normal way, and I therefore propose giving the floor to our rapporteur, Mr Ferber. – The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. – The next item is the joint debate on: - the oral question (B5-0004/2000) by Mr Désir and others, to the Council, on the Council position on the idea of a capital tax - the oral question (B5-0005/2000) by Mr Désir and others, to the Commission, on the Commission position on the idea of a capital tax. – The next item is the report (A5-0142/2000) by Mr Berenguer Fuster, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directives 85/611/EEC, 92/49/EEC, 92/96/EEC and 93/22/EEC as regards exchange of information with third countries [(COM(1999) 748 – C5-0011/2000 – 2000/0014 (COD)]. – The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on Aids. –The next item is the report (A5-0197/2000) by Mr Lund, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the Commission Communication to the Council and the European Parliament on a Community strategy for endocrine disrupters – a range of substances suspected of interfering with the hormone systems of humans and wildlife [COM(1999) 706 – C5-0107/2000 – 2000/2071(COS)]. The debate is closed. The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. The President has already said that she regretted this incident and has apologised to our guests. Secondly, the Secretary-General is going to draw up a report to establish what in fact happened, so that a remedy can be found. *** – The next item is the report (A5-0298/2000) by Mr Clegg, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on unbundled access to the local loop [COM(2000) 394 – C5-0432/2000 – 2000/0185(COD)]. –  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against Mr Sterckx’s report, which I believe constitutes a serious threat to the future of air transport. In the first place, this report gives no precise analysis of the liberalisation of air traffic. There is no mention of its huge impact on the environment. There is no mention of the major implications for airspace congestion related to the fact that the average number of passengers per flight has been considerably reduced as a result of competition. There is no mention, or only very superficial discussion, of the great decline in the social conditions observed in these sectors of activity, nor is there any mention of the adverse effects on town and country planning, to the extent that, at the present time, it costs a lot to travel to a remote area of Europe, whereas costs have fallen for routes which are already well served.  These are the negative results of liberalisation. Worse still, Mr Sterckx’s report proposes a new phase of liberalisation, envisaging not only a single European airspace, a proposal worth considering, but associating this inevitably with the privatisation of air traffic control. Even the United States of America has not privatised its air traffic control agency. It remains subject to the federal authority of the Federal Republic of the United States of America. Even the home of liberalism did not go for this option. One would have to be totally unaware of the deterioration in the safety of British transport systems, and the recurrence of accidents related to the privatisation of this means of transport, not to realise that, in terms of safety, there is nothing better than a public service. Yet the choice made in this report is quite different, in fact the opposite, the complete antithesis.  I think that Europe is probably now, more so than before, in need of the confidence of its constituent nations, and that a new phase of liberalisation would run counter to the latter’s expectations. They make this quite clear on a regular basis. A subsequent return of liberalism will come as no surprise. – I have received seven motions for resolutions, pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure, to wind up the debate on this statement. Before closing the debate, I invite the President-in-Office to reply to the debate or at least conclude it. As regards the report by the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on the proposal for a Council framework decision on combating fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment, currently scheduled for Thursday 18 May, the rapporteur, Mr Gerhard Schmid, has just noted that the text which is to be submitted to the Council on 29 May is substantially different from the text submitted to Parliament, on which the report in question was based. This means that Parliament must be consulted afresh. In order to avoid debating the subject twice over, the rapporteur wishes to wait until the Council’s recommendation has been updated in order to draw up a new text. The Socialist Group has therefore asked that this matter be referred to committee and that the item be removed from the agenda for next Thursday.  I must inform you that due to the late submission of the report by Mrs Buitenweg, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, this report was not available in French, Spanish or Swedish for the meetings of the political groups last night. I therefore propose that we keep the debate on the report on the agenda as it currently stands, as the first item on Thursday 18 May, but that we defer the vote on the report until the next part-session. Are there any objections? r. –  Mr President, we have already had the opportunity, at the first reading, to examine this report and I was given to believe in committee that there was a broad consensus within this House. LIFE is the only budget line for direct assistance for the environment in the Community budget, and one cannot help but note that it does not live up to our ambitions since the amounts allocated to it have been stagnating for years. Despite the enlargement which has already taken place, when we renewed the first LIFE programme to move on to the second, despite enlargement, the level of appropriations remained the same. And then we see that, increasingly, the regions, the various operators, businesses, associations, are submitting LIFE projects, both for LIFE-NATURE and LIFE-ENVIRONMENT, projects that are of excellent quality, which following technical assessment by all the competent committees are unanimously found to be worthy of European Union support, but we still cannot fund them, for lack of budget appropriations. It must also be mentioned that this budget experiences a rate of consumption of appropriations which is quite exceptional within the Community budget. Patently we have here an instrument that is appropriate for the policies which we wish to implement. I would stress the LIFE-NATURE strand in particular. We are well aware that, in the European Union, a whole raft of directives such as the directive on habitats and the directive on migratory birds encounter problems in implementation. With LIFE-NATURE we should be able to support policies which demonstrate the feasibility, the validity of the objectives of these directives, and their capacity to be implemented. And, for want of appropriations, we lose this legitimacy and allow the idea that these European directives of ours are not reasonable and are not applicable to develop. And so the debates taking place today focus on two major issues: firstly, comitology, an ongoing debate within this House, but Parliament wished to implement policies settled rather by management committees or advisory committees which give the Commission some flexibility and which do not give the Council too much scope to obstruct and have their intergovernmental philosophy prevail over the Community philosophy which we are here to stand up for within the European Parliament. But we have these comitology debates with regard to most of the European Union’s financial programmes and instruments. I would say that in my opinion – and the experiences we have had in the past tend to show this – that reconciling opinions on comitology is rather easier than reconciling opinions on the budget. Let me point out that Parliament is asking for 850 million ecus in appropriations, not a vast sum in the Community budget, and that the current proposals are for 613 million ecus. I feel, at any rate, that for the ultimate application of LIFE, at least, there would be some way for the Union to make a significant budgetary gesture in favour of the environment. Let me conclude with the matter of our institutions’ way of working. This is the essence of how I understand the situation: we are being told that it is essential for us to reach a conclusion quickly, that, basically, the Members of Parliament should drop their claims, particularly claims on the budget, for if we do not soon, in line with the codecision procedure, get around to establishing the framework of the regulations for LIFE, then its implementation for the year 2000 is going to suffer a delay, and in the meantime the NGOs and the operators at grass roots level are waiting for our appropriations. I would, however, like to point out that the Council has plenty of time to formulate its ideas and that it is submitting its proposals to us only a few months before the fateful date. As for us, we our bound by the terms of the texts: a maximum of four months. We meet our deadlines and afterwards we are told that we should hold on and that in order to be reasonable we must go along with the position of the others, because in the codecision procedure there is just not enough time. I think Parliament often protests about this method, not to point the finger at any specific party within the Council, and I certainly would not want the Portuguese Presidency to feel responsible for this state of affairs, since, the truth is, it is something of a tradition, which the Council has kept going for a long time. But I should like to stress the fact that, on this issue of the environment, the budget issue is a central one and Parliament cannot yield to the blackmail which requires it to be the only reasonable party in the deal. I therefore hope, firstly, that our fellow Members will support us in the conciliation – but votes on this area are always very much in agreement – but also that the Council and the Commission will manage to listen to us and that we shall each take a step towards the other. Thank you, Mr De Rossa. Before giving the floor again to the President of the Commission, I must tell you that I have received, pursuant to Rule 37, seven motions for resolutions to conclude the debate. Mrs Flemming, the debate on Austria should not be restarted as we have already had an exchange of views on this issue. I will give the floor to Mr Schulz who wanted to raise a point of order on a personal challenge made in yesterday’s debate. The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the famine in Ethiopia. –  Mr President, I wish to make a personal statement and remind Mrs Jackson, who certainly has a lot of work as chairman of the committee, that, at the first committee meeting at which we discussed this subject, I said I disagreed with the biased way certain directives were selected and not others. Moreover, Mrs Jackson, I tabled numerous amendments calling for the series of paragraphs you had proposed to be deleted. My amendments were not adopted in committee and I therefore felt it was not acceptable for us to continue on these bases. Mrs Isler Béguin was not in committee on the days we discussed these subjects. You will find exactly the same arguments I have put forward today in the Minutes of the committee meeting and in my amendments. I know we have a great deal of work in committee and that colleagues cannot always remember amendments in detail, which I fully understand. However, I wanted to point this out. – The next item is the report (A5-0276/2000) by Mr Nicholson, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing additional technical measures for the recovery of the stock of cod in the Irish Sea (ICES Division VIIa)(COM(2000) 190 – C5-0219/2000 – 2000/0071(CNS)). The next item is the joint debate on the following joint motions for resolutions: - B5-0608/2000, by Mr Pannella and others, on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members, on the need to stop Chinese colonisation and adopt a new Statute for Tibet; - B5-0610/2000, by Mrs Sanders-ten Holte, on behalf of the Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on the urgent need for Sino-Tibetan negotiations with a view to the adoption of a new Statute for Tibet; - B5-0617/2000, by Mrs Muscardini and Mr Collins, on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group, on Tibet; - B5-0621/2000, by Mr Thomas Mann and Mr Bowis, on behalf of the Group of the Europe People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the Western China Poverty Reduction Project and the future of Tibet; - B5-0641/2000, by Mr Messner and Mrs Frassoni, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on the urgent need for Sino-Tibetan negotiations with a view to the adoption of a new Statute for Tibet; - B5-0645/2000, by Mr Sakellariou and Mr Veltroni, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on Tibet – Mr Atkins, the services tell me that the delay was only for this week. They thought the translations could be made available in spite of this fairly difficult and densely packed timetable. Nonetheless, I have no doubt that this Chamber will have been able to examine each of the amendments in detail and I think it is possible to have the debate on this report. In any case, all the translations will be available to MEPs between now and the time of the vote. First of all, Mr Maaten, the article you are talking about only refers to one Group or 32 Members. Secondly, it does not directly concern the question of matters for topical and urgent debate, as the very principle of urgent matters is to discuss them at the beginning of the part-session in order to establish a framework for them. This is not like a referral back to committee. Consequently, the urgent matter is either accepted or refused. If it is accepted, we must follow the procedure through and the debate must take place. –  Commissioner, we are particularly concerned because the decision that has been taken does not appear to be an adequate proper response to the anxiety of the consumers. The testing is not systematic or is limited to sick animals or dead-on-farm animals, and so we are in no way giving the impression of adopting a quasi-systematic, and hence reliable, approach with regard to meat quality and to the epidemiological policy which might be implemented. You have just said that public health takes priority over employment and economic considerations. Do you not think that, in this instance, considerations of the costs of vaccines and money have taken precedence over consumer interests? –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think Mrs Doyle cannot have examined the genesis of the actual situation, as we have debated this issue on several occasions in this House. I cannot imagine, Madame Doyle, that the Council was unanimous and this House almost unanimous in taking a decision based solely on the Airbus defence. No, there are thousands of residents living in the vicinity of airports who suffer considerable noise pollution. Obviously, this regulation offers them the best protection as things stand at present under current international legislation. Secondly, Mrs de Palacio, Mr Coelho, in my view, the postponement of one year served no useful purpose, for the simple reason that American interests – and when I say American interests I mean the interests of one section of American industry – are clearly interests which run counter to the general improvement of standards, even more so in the case of ‘hushkits’. There are only two things that will cause them to shift position: pressure from the European Union or pressure from their own public opinion for, unfortunately, the United States is a vast territory and the environs of airports are less badly affected than the territories overflown in Europe, which is, by virtue of its geographical layout, affected more seriously by such constraints. American opinion will therefore only be shifted significantly in turn if we first make it known in our capacity as Europeans. My regret is that this year’s postponement may have been seen by our partners as indicative of weakness in our position. Let me tell you, then, Mrs de Palacio, Mr Coelho, that we want to see firm negotiation. There are no grounds for suspending regulations. We might at best revise them, but we could do so only in one instance: if an international agreement makes it possible to improve the situation and to draw up an overall framework agreement. An overall framework does not mean evading the issue, as I began to doubt upon hearing the views of the Council. Do we in fact all agree on the idea that the framework agreement should apply to standards on sound levels and should not seek to cover too wide an area, which would tend to force us to accept a number of compromises regarding sound levels, at the expense of some other type of pollution, which probably deserves our attention, but not so much so as to warrant our ceding our argument. Thank you, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. – The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on creating a monitoring centre for industrial change. I invite Mrs Péry to speak on behalf of the Council, and I know she will feel at home in this Chamber as she served as Vice-President of Parliament for many years. –  Mr President, let me repeat what I said yesterday, namely that the French Socialists will not take part in the vote because they believe that this is not the correct procedure, since the only environmental directives referred to are those on wild birds and on Natura 2000 and a more balanced approach should have been taken. My second point is that we do not believe it is in the remit of the legislative authority to decide whether the laws have been transposed. That is up to the Commission and also the Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the next item is the continuation of the joint debate on four reports on human rights, racism, xenophobia and antisemitism. Thank you, Minister. I must inform you that I have received a motion for a resolution under Rule 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed. The vote will take place at 12 noon. I propose adjourning the sitting. We shall resume at noon for the voting. The next item is the report (A5-0160/2000) by Mr Maaten, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council directive amending Council directive 92/12/EEC of 25 February 1992 as regards temporary quantitative restrictions for products subject to excise duties brought into Sweden from other Member States [COM(2000)295 – C5-0260/2000 – 2000/0118(CNS)] The next item is the recommendation for second reading by Mr Beysen (A5-0153/2000), on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the Common Position adopted by the Council on 28 February 2000 with a view to the adoption of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 3330/91 on the statistics relating to the trading of goods between Member States, with specific reference to a simplified application of the nomenclature of products [(14100/1/1999 – C5 – 0134/2000 – 1997/0162 (COD)] The next item is the joint debate on: The oral questions by Mrs Terrón i Cusí, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists (B5-0013/2000), by Mr Ceyhun and Mrs Boumediene-Thiery, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (B5-0017/2000) and by Mr Pirker, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (B5-0019/2000) to the Council, on Eurodac. . –Throughout the ages, mankind has had to consider how to guide scientific developments so as to bring them in line with ethical and social choices. This issue is all the more sensitive when it concerns human beings and genetic foundations. We must, therefore, be extremely cautious, without going so far as to be obscurantist. Given the present state of our knowledge and of the ethical debate, and in view of the UK Government’s unacceptable authorisation of human cloning, the first thing we must seek is a total and absolute moratorium on all experiments in human cloning. The second, after hearing the opinion of the European Committee on Ethics, is to define clear guidelines that guarantee human dignity. As they stand at present, I do not like any of the resolutions submitted by the groups. The Socialist Group is not calling strongly enough for an immediate stop to all human cloning. The PPE Group seems to be making a final judgment on such sensitive points of discussion as the distinction between reproductive and other cloning. In my opinion, however, I think it would be useful to obtain an analysis from the European Committee on Ethics on these points, in order to clarify the issues. The urgent nature of the subject should have demanded an effective approach: - an immediate and absolute moratorium; - in-depth reflection and a very wide-ranging basic debate prior to a directive laying down the rules to be adopted. That is not the case with the resolutions put to the vote today. I will therefore abstain on these motions for resolution. . The procedure adopted for framing and adopting the Charter of Fundamental Rights really only leaves the European Parliament with a simple choice: to either accept or reject the current Charter. Given that only have two options, my decision is unequivocally to vote in favour of the step forward which this Charter represents, however small that step forward may be in terms of the content and scope of the text. First of all we should take another look at the approach adopted. While the Convention method is a valuable one, and productive in terms of drawing up a basic text that is seeking a broad compromise, all the same nothing can justify depriving the European Parliament, the physical representatives of the peoples of Europe, of the opportunity to amend and enrich the text. Yet when a historian looks into the way in which the 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen or other similar international declarations were drawn up, he perceives the extent to which parliamentary debate and the amendment process were able to lend inspiration, significance and also ambition to these fundamental texts which are still powerful today. At this time when debate in the institutions of Europe is being undertaken concomitantly with the Charter being adopted, all those men and women who, like myself, would like a European constitution and consider that this Charter may serve as the bare bones for the preamble to such a constitution should demand that the European Parliament be enabled to vote on the content, as part of its normal parliamentary business, which is basically deliberative. In connection with this institutional debate, it is essential to incorporate the Charter into the Treaties of the European Union so that the rights that have been declared can be guaranteed for all and the state policies required to implement them can be developed either by the Member States or by the European Union itself, without conflicting with the existing legal texts. It must be acknowledged that the law of free competition and the single market too often prevails over all other requirements and effectively flouts social rights and fundamental rights. We have seen too many declarations that were not followed up in practice. This is therefore the first priority: we must give this Charter real legal force. Next, the actual content of the Charter is ambiguous and inadequate on some counts. In the first place, there are discrepancies between the German and French versions which raise major questions about the references to “religious” or “spiritual” values. Personally, I am convinced that secularism is a liberating factor for the modern world. I deplore the ambiguity of these terms and also the lack of a clearer reference to secularity. Secondly, the right to work is not directly stated. Anyone can see that a provision stating that “every person has the right to work” is really not that ambitious. The difference between not prohibiting access to work and taking action to make it possible to work is more than just a shade of meaning. The Charter should have clearly stated the right to work, and indeed the right to housing, which was also expressed in a roundabout way, affording little protection. The Charter must be improved, and the European Parliament must propose a strategy enabling it to be updated and enriched. – The next item is the report (A5-0361/2000) by Mr Ferber, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 97/67/EC on opening to competition of Community postal services [COM(2000)0319 – C5-0375/2000 – 2000/0139(COD)]. Mrs Muscardini, I suppose you wanted to speak on the next item, but, quite frankly, I would urge you not to take the floor. I cannot deprive you of your freedom of speech, however, but I do appeal to your sense of responsibility. No, Mr Blokland, the Rules of Procedure do not lay down that the postponement of an urgent matter can be put to the vote. Topical and urgent matters are a very specific case. It was voted upon on Monday and this House, by sovereign right, drew up a framework for it. As soon as a matter becomes urgent, it cannot be postponed. Obviously, the arguments developed by you and Mr Maatten can be considered during the debate, but I am not putting the postponement of this debate to the vote. – The next item is the report (A5-0009/2000) by Mr Graça Moura, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a single financing and programming instrument for cultural cooperation ('Culture 2000') (C5-0327/1999 – 1998/0169(COD)). – The debate is closed. The vote will take place at 6 p.m. – Mr Blokland, I believe my interpretation is in line with the letter and spirit of our Rules of Procedure. It is clearly stated that the agenda – as we are talking about establishing the agenda – is established by this House at the beginning of the part-session, which has been done. Regardless of this, if new factors come into play, these can be communicated during the debate to provide additional information for our fellow Members when they come to vote. However, I stand by this interpretation, which is linked both to the principle of the agenda and the principle of urgent matters. . I voted against Mr Atkins’ report because it is totally at odds with the real world and is in keeping with an a priori ideological vision rather than with any concern to meet the real needs of our fellow-citizens and air transport users. We cannot, of course, deny that there is a need to improve the situation of regulation and air traffic control in Europe in the spirit of the single European sky. It is perfectly obvious that the aircraft in our airspace should not be on the receiving end of inconsistent, uncoordinated and complicated handling of their flight plans. And it is true that, although some progress has been made with Eurocontrol, the time has already come to move on to the next phase and to improve the system, bearing in mind one absolute imperative: safety. Regulation and air traffic control must not be subject to the law of competition, but rather to the concept of a general interest service. Moreover, the United States have never liberalised their own air traffic control, as this is managed by a single state agency. That just goes to show! The Atkins report, however, is entirely concerned with the goal of opening the service up to competition, even though it is hard to see exactly how it could be a source of private profit or how the profits made could possibly reflect its performance! The pretext for driving forward this liberalisation, furthermore, is delays in flights. This is certainly a situation that must be remedied, but, in order to be effective, we should really analyse the actual reasons for delays and the real solutions. We should first of all note that there have been positive developments this year as delays have substantially reduced in France. This indicates in the first place that we should make a distinction between temporary disruption (use of airspace by the military for Kosovo, the change in the control system, etc.) and structural problems. We must also measure the problems due to the air companies or the limited European civil airspace with regard to the number of overflights. Air traffic control does not play a very significant part in causing delays, in the final analysis, and, in any case, improvement of the system involves improving the organisation of the coordination of the various Member State control systems, supporting Eurocontrol in this role. This should be the priority and the guidelines on the single European sky. Unfortunately, the Commission does not appear to be on this track, and the Atkins report is even further off the mark. The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance. Mr Maaten has the floor for a point of order. –  Madam President, as other Members have said, there is indeed a problem with air services to Strasbourg. I should, however, like to remind those members that are such devotees of free competition, that since we deregulated airlines, it is no longer possible to subsidise them and to class services to and from Strasbourg as public service operations, and hence, many invitations to tender have failed to bear fruit because no airline has been prepared to offer flights which are considered to be unprofitable. – Mr Désir, I note your comment and the existence of this joint motion for a resolution. If the services of the Presidency confirm that this was correctly tabled, it will be included. The debate is closed. The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m. Mr Barón Crespo, I quite understand your objection. I am informed by our services that the other reason for making this proposal was related to the limited time the groups have to table amendments. Having said that, following your request, I suggest that we put to the House the sense of the proposal which I have just made. Perhaps Mrs Buitenweg can give us her opinion, as rapporteur? The next item is the report (A5-0159/2000), by Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on historical liabilities resulting from nuclear activities carried out at the JRC under the Euratom Treaty – Decommissioning of obsolete nuclear installations and waste management [COM(1999)114 – C5–0214/1999 – 1999/2169(COS)] – The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0349/2000) on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, concerning the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the implementation of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use [8878/1/2000 – C5-0424/2000 – 1997/0197(COD)] (rapporteur: Mr Liese) () Yes, Mr Manisco, you are absolutely right. In the text of the resolution, reference was made to this State. Technically speaking, it would therefore be appropriate to communicate it to the Governor of Virginia and it will therefore be put to the vote with this amendment. – The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. The next item is the report (A5­0144/2000) by Mrs Lulling, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I. on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directives 69/169/EEC and 92/12/EEC as regards temporary quantitative restrictions on beer imports into Finland [COM(2000)76 – C5­0137/2000 – 2000/0038(CNS)], II. on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 918/83 as regards a temporary derogation for duty-free imports of beer into Finland [COM(2000)76 – C5­0138/2000 – 2000/0039(CNS)] – Madam President, when the  sank, it was the fault of the ship’s age, the single hull, the Indian crew and the Maltese flag. When the  sank, it was relatively young, it had a double hull, a crew from the European Community and it was flying the Italian flag. It is enough to confuse anybody! Our citizens understand even less well. I believe that our reports contain a weakness, in that they do not sufficiently discuss the seafarers and the men on board ship. More than 80 of accidents are associated with human error, but there are reasons for human error, which are social in nature. Naturally, the training of the crews is important, but it must be checked and this can only be carried out by the port state. Inspectors must check not only the condition of the ship but also the shipboard social conditions. Is Convention 147 of the ILO which, amongst other things, obliges port states to reinforce measures aimed at protecting the interests of seamen in terms of their health and safety, their working conditions and their union rights, being correctly enforced? As for the Paris Memorandum of Understanding, I believe it would be useful to amend it in such a way as to make inspections of the shipboard social conditions systematic and effective. I believe that the issue of maritime safety will not be over until we have talked about the seamen. –  Mr President, Commissioner, this proposal sums up our approach quite neatly. Our point of departure is a known problem, the delays of 1999, even though this year was exceptional due to the war in Kosovo and the changes to flight paths. When a problem arises, we quite spontaneously turn to Parliament’s favourite topic, namely competition. We will sooner or later have to build an effigy to competition. The limits of competition are reached very quickly when the safety of passengers is at stake, and these limits, which fortunately appear, for the most part, in the draft texts, are a matter of responsibility for Member States. Air-traffic controllers are, essentially, equivalent to a policeman on the side of the road, to a ship’s captain steering a vessel into port,andwe can never do deals at their expense. In addition, each Member State is free to select its air navigation providers, and the regulation must provide for cases where public or private businesses concern missions of general interest. An amendment has been tabled to this effect. Airspace is not only used by civilians but also by the military and cooperation between the two is therefore necessary. I would point out that this cooperation, for the army, falls under the intergovernmental rather than the Community pillar, and in this case, the Single Sky Committee is not answering the question. Moreover, the Fifteen are not alone; there are other countries. You told us that they are to join Eurocontrol next month and this is a positive step. We must now wait for the next developments. There are more limits – and I shall end on this point – since control is a single entity that we cannot carve or cut up into slices. The services involved in providing control cannot be disassociated. I hope that the outcome of our vote will take into account all this information. Having said that, our fellow Members have done a good piece of work and I thank them for listening carefully to what we have said. – Mr President, I have stepped into Mrs Hazan’s shoes. This is unfortunate for you, but I hope you will excuse me and excuse her. On the eve of the Laeken Summit, Mrs Hazan said she was very pleased to have the opportunity to present this report on the Union’s priorities and policy objectives for external relations in the field of justice and home affairs and to play a larger part in this debate on the progress made in relation to the area of security, freedom and justice since the Tampere Summit. The Union is at a crossroads. We must not arrive late for this rendezvous that is so crucial and strategic to its future unless we want to end up one day with our back to the wall. Moreover, we now have an opportunity to examine the degree to which the Member States are willing to put justice and home affairs in the forefront of the Union’s policies. That is the purpose of this report, which highlights the need to fully integrate issues relating to asylum, immigration, justice and police cooperation, i.e. issues of very direct concern to our fellow citizens. With that in mind, all the Member States will have to take global, integrated and inter-pillar action. We must also stress the fact that hitherto the European Union has taken too little action in this field, which is still in its early days. This kind of report must be seen above all as providing food for thought on the added value of deepening the area of security, freedom and justice that is at the very heart of the Union, so that the Union can be prepared to meet the challenges of an external policy in this field. It is up to us to establish the necessary instruments, a lack of which has meant that we have hitherto been unable to respond to our partners’ demands. Some of these objectives have been listed. They concern the following areas: combating all forms of organised crime, forming a common front against terrorism, coordination amongst Member States and candidate countries as regards training for the judiciary and police authorities, establishing a co-development policy, establishing close forms of cooperation with third countries in fighting racism, xenophobia and all forms of discrimination, establishing a strong link between immigration policy and development aid policy, the need to adopt a common asylum policy containing minimum standards for the reception and temporary protection of asylum seekers. This is a difficult task, which will take a long time and calls for complex international negotiations. By that token we must give the Union a mandate to take action to achieve this, by supporting the Commission proposals that do and will play their part in establishing this kind of coherent framework. In this sort of situation, we have to be bold enough to put our foot on the accelerator and ensure that decisions that are still blocked in the Council can enter into force. Obstacles do exist and we must do our best to overcome them. We must not overlook the human implications of these problems. Current events remind us of that, with the terrible tragedy of the eight refugees, including three children, found dead in a container in Ireland last Saturday. We also remember the 58 victims found at Dover in June 2000. I hope it will not take other tragedies of this kind for our States to realise how important it is to make progress in these areas. The Council must, of course, assume its responsibilities, because what is happening here is the result of its overcautious approach. Similarly, we must not allow ourselves to be blackmailed by any one country – I am referring to Italy – but I believe that yesterday’s events have changed things and Mrs Hazan cannot have known about this last night. In this regard, the tragic events of 11 September make it even more necessary for us to look at these matters from a long-term point of view. We must not now adopt an overly hasty position out of a sense of urgency. On the contrary, only if Europe is equipped with instruments that are permanent, operational and coordinated to a similar degree can it exert its influence on the international scene and impose its vision of humanism and the protection of individual freedoms. Lastly, we emphasise that Parliament must be able to exercise control over external policy and justice and home affairs policy by means of periodic consultation regarding the overall strategy pursued. Let me point out that this is not so much a question of making unrealistic and well-meaning proposals and but rather of analysing the situation objectively, which means we must look at this external dimension as a key part of our policy. The progress made since Tampere is not very encouraging. Whose fault is that? It is certainly not the fault of the Commission, which is making a great effort to achieve these objectives. Instead, we should criticise the Council, which tends too often to put off the adoption of specific measures again and again, and the unanimity rule governing these areas, which blocks their adoption. Once again, none of this is new, as you know, since this question was also raised at the Tampere Summit. Today, we must seize the moment... –  Mr President, Commissioner, the Erika sank near my home and is still there, with 20 000 tonnes in its hold, the fate of which we are waiting to discover. It could have sunk anywhere. It happened to sink there, and Brittany, where I come from, should not apologise for the fact that geography has made it a peninsula, and the result is that it is often forced to clear up after shipwrecks.  My first thoughts are for the 26 Indian sailors, who were saved but of whom nothing has been said. There could have been deaths in this disaster and safety at sea means, above all, men’s lives. By now they are far away. It is a miracle that they were saved. So we are now experiencing the same thing that happened 20 years ago with the Amoco Cadiz; a wreck on the North coast, a wreck on the South coast, a wreck on the West coast. Things could well continue in the same way.  Commissioner, as time is very short, I would like to pick out the seven points which we feel, and you have already mentioned some of them, are essential to work on: double-hulled vessels in our waters as soon as possible and the strictest possible state control of ports. In particular, we must ensure that classification societies are compelled to make their reports public, as currently, we do not have access to them. Then, sanctions must be harmonised between the 15 Member States; they should not be different, but the same throughout the Union. We must be tougher on vessels flying flags of convenience, not because they are necessarily bad boats, but because amongst these boats there are many bad ones. We must improve information on all of the world’s ships, but provision has already been made for this. We must also target those responsible and take a tougher line with them.  With regard to this matter, I would like to know who owns the Erika, because the idea of a legal person under our law is one thing, but there are always real shareholders in the background. Where are the Erika’s owners? Perhaps they are in lovely villas by lovely beaches, getting a nice tan. We would like to know their names and their faces. Finally, there must be improvements in the training of crews. In our society there is no such thing as zero-risk, but we must at least ensure the greatest possible levels of safety. The European Parliament has delivered an opinion on the Commission guidelines for the INTERREG Community Initiative concerning cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation. I want to defend an amendment tabled by my group on the maritime aspect of this Community initiative. This does not involve the concerns about the future of the Atlantic Arc but rather the need to integrate the principle of maritime borders into strand A on cross-border cooperation. In the Commission guidelines, few maritime areas are eligible for INTERREG IIIA. The amendments to the Decourrière report aim to make INTERREG more maritime-oriented. This is an important development which must be supported as it is the future of the EU which is at stake. I am aware of the Commission’s reluctance on this subject as it announced during the symposium on the presentation of INTERREG III last November. However, I must point out that preventing the recognition of maritime borders amounts to denying the existence of an area which has great potential for projects and innovation. One example of this is the ‘Celtic’ area which encompasses the territories of Brittany in France, Cornwall and Devon in the United Kingdom and Cork and Waterford in Ireland. This is an area whose locally-based economy is characterised by dependence on the fishing industry and the importance of the agri-foodstuffs sector. It also has excellent cultural and relational links, through twinnings for example. INTERREG III, strand A, would allow the regions in this area to advance a number of structural projects needed to develop small and medium-sized undertakings and to promote research and technical development through knowledge transfer. The European Commission should therefore be able to participate in the construction of port and airport infrastructure to provide links between regions. This policy would have important economic consequences for the fishing industry in Brittany in that catches could be unloaded at Irish advance bases in order to then be transported to the Breton agri-foodstuffs industry. The integration of the maritime border into strand A would finally allow the western periphery to be recognised as a unique and important economic area which is confronted by the ‘continentalisation’ of the European Union. This would show respect for these peripheral areas which are rather concerned about enlargement to the east. The maritime world has great potential. We therefore must not leave it out of innovative and pilot Community programmes which will allow the new geographical and economic map of Europe to be defined. –  Commissioner, Mr President, I would like to speak out in favour of the equality of the regions with each other. Even if some have legislative competence, this would not give them greater or additional rights in relation to other regions. Otherwise, we would be establishing two-speed citizenship with first- and second-class Europeans. It falls to each State to give power to its regions if it wishes to do so. The matter is being debated in many of our countries, and in particular in my country, France, but not only there. It falls to each State to consult its local authorities and its regions within the context of European policies and their transposal. The Member States do not necessarily do this well, and could do better, but this is a good start. I would point out that the European Union is not the sum of its regions. It is a Union of States and peoples. Each State must remain master of its internal organisation, both at institutional and territorial level. That is laid down in the Treaties in their current wording and we must retain both the spirit and the letter of the Treaties. No country can claim to have a better system than another. No country can impose its system on another. Europe is a contract, not a constraint. If I had to summarise, I would say: yes to strong, fraternal regions within the European Union, yes to regions that cooperate outside their borders, but no to a Europe of regions which would be an unfair, variable-geometry Europe. . –  Mr President, the report I am presenting deals with the regional meetings arranged by the Commission in 1998-1999. It has been subject to intense and, at times, heated debate in committee, because it is one of the first reports, like those by Mr Gallagher, Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna and Mr Cunha, to force us to consider the common fisheries policy for 2002 rather than because it is crucial or likely to lead to decisions being made. This is a sensitive subject, involving a sector with very specific characteristics and one which affects some quite typical and fairly limited regions in Europe. The activities of the sector usually generate a great many jobs both up and downstream, making many regions dependent on fisheries, with no easy alternatives to turn to in times of crisis. Everyone in these regions knows that 31 December 2002 will be crucial, since this is the deadline for the common fisheries policy, as in 1992 and 1982, as if we produced a new one every 10 years. With a view to forming as rounded an opinion as possible in order to prepare for this deadline, which I believe was a good idea, the Commission organised a systematic consultation process involving everyone associated or involved with this activity, sending out questionnaires and arranging meetings. Thirty meetings were held, attended by nearly 1 500 people. With regard to the form of proceedings, the method of the report was discussed. Some Members would have preferred not to examine the subject in too much depth. We debated the matter at great length within the parliamentary committee and, in the end, the Committee on Fisheries went along with the opinion of the rapporteur – as, in my view, there really was no other option – with everyone able to argue their own corner on the subject, just as usual. With regard to the substance, however, national and even regional differences within the Member States were seen to be more intense than the rather traditional political differences, and that is why a number of amendments were tabled. These amendments show that, although the original positions were sometimes far apart, the political debate allowed groups to be reconciled, leading to an open-minded text which provides a sound starting point, along with the other reports, from which to undertake the reform of the common fisheries policy. Looking at the amendments and more generally, most of the provisions voted on in committee adopt the rapporteur’s point of view, with some additional specification or clarification. A Green Paper is due to be issued in the coming months – at the end of March of this year, I believe – followed by the legislative text in the course of 2002. At the moment, two main schools of thought are discernible. The first would like to see a thorough re-evaluation of the entire system and all the foundations, past and present, of the common fisheries policy. The second, while avoiding a complete re-examination of the existing foundations, would like to see the system clarified, amended and improved so that the fisheries sector can develop while, of course, preserving fish resources. Quite obviously, the European fisheries sector has to deal with the problems that most other fishing industries throughout the world are currently experiencing. They do not affect just our continent or our waters. Overfishing reduces stocks, catch sizes and revenue, and is the main threat as far as the future of resources and the fishing industry proper are concerned. Increased competition, associated with the globalisation of the market in fishery products, is a further problem. If the fisheries industry is to become more competitive, it will depend on the sector’s ability to adapt in order to face up to the constraints imposed by both the state of its resources and by commercial demand. The common fisheries policy is the European Union’s management tool for regenerating the fisheries industry and aquaculture. This policy was drawn up in order to manage a common resource and to respect the commitments laid down in the first European Treaties. The report, therefore, expresses views on the four aspects of the common fisheries policy, which are conservation and management of resources, structural policy, market organisation and relations with third countries. Review of the main areas of the Union’s fisheries policy is called for throughout. That is the guiding principle. The precautionary principle, the latest thing, so to speak, is clearly included, as is the commitment to developing a responsible fisheries policy. In particular, I would like to highlight some suggestions, especially maintaining the  position on the 6/12-mile zone; maintaining boxes after scientific checks have been carried out along with, inevitably, the issue of access to the North Sea, which will be more difficult in view of our enlargement plans; maintaining the system of TACs and quotas, on condition that they be reviewed; vigilance regarding individual transferable quotas and a thorough review of the Multiannual Guidance Programmes; harmonising inspections and infringements and, of course, committing to fisheries agreements and action programmes specifically designed for the Mediterranean. I should like to finish by adding, as Mr Gallagher said, that we do not wish to see regionalisation become renationalisation nor do we wish for further social measures to be introduced into the common fisheries policy. Perhaps Mr Gallagher and I have given the impression that we are repeating ourselves. Politics involves repeating oneself and contradicting oneself. We have opted to repeat ourselves. Mr President, Commissioner, this report cannot be detached from the European context. What do the people of Europe remember about the EU in these past few months? They remember the division over foreign policy, they remember the split over budgetary policy, they remember the deadlock on the draft constitution, and they remember the feeling of impotence as they watched the dollar soar in value. If the social model were to be taken away from them, what would be left in the coming months? The social model is their one source of pride in Europe at the present time, and services of general interest are part of that social model. The market is a fine thing, but we are not about to replace the dictatorship of the proletariat with the dictatorship of the shareholders. We are not about to enshrine the principle of an all-powerful market which is familiar to those who live in the land of the Rockies, nor are we about to return to an all-powerful state, which used to be a familiar concept to those in the land of the Urals. Mr Herzog’s report and proposals strike the right balance. We need to rediscover that harmony, that judicious compromise, especially for the sake of our fellow European citizens. There are strong points that must be built upon: the provisions of the draft constitutional treaty, the progress promised by the framework directive and the implications of appropriate guaranteed funding of services of general interest. There is a need to recapture the spirit that inspired Mr Herzog’s initial report before the committee began to chip away some of its substance. That spirit needs to be recaptured, particularly for the sake of our fellow citizens. Mr President, Commissioner, we shall have experienced a term of office in which the dominant theme has been one of security and safety. There was, of course, the loss of the on 12 November 1999 and even the attack on the World Trade Center on 11 September 2001, with implications for the maritime risk. There was also the loss of the , the anniversary of which falls tomorrow, 19 November 2002. These events will certainly lead us to provide ourselves with regulations ranging from prevention to sanctions. The report of our colleague, which I support, leads me to emphasise three points. The first is that the freedom of the seas must be controlled. The sea can no longer be seen as an arena for individual adventure, for it also presents a risk to other people. More careful monitoring and greater discipline are necessary, from the open sea to the port facility. Secondly, the EU must put down firmer roots within the IMO, which is something of a maritime ministry for the whole world, just as, for example, the IMF plays the role of a Ministry of Finance. Among the forty or so members who, I believe, form the management board, a dozen are members of the current or future EU. It would therefore be worth coordinating them better. Otherwise, it will be that much easier to have recourse to flags of convenience. Thirdly and finally, any law must be able to give rise to sanctions. Otherwise, it is sterile and ineffective. The IMO conventions are not in any way binding. I think that action must be taken to ensure that they become so one day and, moreover, efforts must in the same way be made to ensure that the ship’s country of origin takes responsibility for it. As long as that is not done, there will still be gaps in our arrangements. To summarise: controlled freedom on the seas, organised unity in the IMO and legality respected by all. These are three principles that must again be worked on. They mark out the path of maritime security and safety, but the path is still a long one. –  Mr President, admittedly, we owe this report to the determination of Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries but also to the tenacity of Mrs Miguélez Ramos who has been able to convince everyone on this subject, because the Committee on Fisheries is often, if not always, obsessed with protecting fishery resources; we should not forget about the lives of our fishermen. I would reiterate that, according to the International Labour Organisation, 24 000 sea fishermen die every year throughout the world – we do not, admittedly, have a global responsibility – as a result of accidents at sea. As a result of this report and also because of the timetable set out by the new fishing policy, we now have the opportunity to include this point in the Green Paper and we will later be able to include it in the common fisheries policy. This has been mentioned by numerous speakers and I think and hope that the Commission will include it. Since we obviously have no commitment to achieve specific results, we cannot do this, but we do have a commitment to resources in this matter, and we can make use of many of them. For example, I am thinking of direct legislation in the area of fishermen’s safety and safety at work, ship and equipment design or introducing rules for managing resources, which may have, and can have, implications for fishermen’s safety. We must also urge ship-owners to make use of technological developments. We must always be at hand to help Member States and the fisheries sector to include these requirements in both initial and in on-going vocational training. Lastly, I shall conclude by repeating the simple terms that Mrs Miguélez Ramos suggested, that is, the safety culture – it should be used to the maximum. In this sector, there is a tradition of fatalism, which is related to the natural elements. We must fight against this tradition, in the name of the safety culture, because there is no reason why, at the beginning of the twenty-first century, we cannot reduce the number of accidents at sea and the number of deaths amongst our fishermen. . – Mr Sterckx,I have looked to see if you have missed anything, and, with the exception of the location of the European Maritime Safety Agency, on which a decision will have to be taken one day, I cannot see any gaps. I would like, if I may, to go back over a number of points made in the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries. First of all, the oil must be retrieved, even if there is less of it. The security of fishing depends on it. Secondly, where the blame lies: seafarers, like everyone else, want to understand how it could have happened. Tomorrow, when we vote on the question of the temporary committee, we must hope that it will help us to understand what happened and to see where France and Spain respectively were to blame. Thirdly, Commissioner, fireboats will have to become pollution-fighting ships. In the event of future accidents, we will need a fleet which can retrieve the oil or petroleum swiftly. Fourthly, with regard to the shipping corridors advocated by the report in order to organise shipping navigation along the same lines as air navigation, I think everyone in the fishing world will support this. Lastly, the question of technical harbour inspections, which are a source of concern to all: I believe that we need to look at social controls and at some kind of work inspection. Indeed, we must not forget that maritime safety and legislation are there, first and foremost, to protect the lives of the seafarers on board, whether they are fishermen, traders or employed in another form of transport. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, America is afraid. It has been afraid since 11 September. It has waged war on every continent. It has little experience of war on its own soil; the last time was in the 1860s. Therefore it is afraid, and when a country or a continent is afraid, it can make stupid mistakes. America should listen to old Europe, this wise old lady, covered in blood and tears, the old lady that America itself came to save from dictatorship fifty years ago. Let America listen to her! This old lady would say: choose security through international law, bow to the decisions of the UN, agree to another UN meeting, which we must demand, for another resolution. We know the Americans are the strongest. We are forced to take note of it. That is no reason to be unilateral. That is no reason to stand firm on your own national interests alone. It must be said that our fellow citizens can detect a strong smell of oil in this matter. Some will say that this is untrue, but they can smell it and they know that three quarters of oil stocks are there, that America needs them, that tomorrow China will need them; they know that these stocks, these resources, must be made available for the development of our countries, certainly, but also the southern countries. These are world stocks for everyone, and first of all also for those countries. Lastly, a final word to young Europe, our Europe, this young girl that we are creating. This will be her hour of truth and we must harmonise the positions of her four Member States and one candidate country that are on the Security Council. What took place on Monday is not enough. We should be able to coordinate our position to decide together what we are going to do with our two rights of veto in the Security Council, anticipating what might be our future. In any case, there is no clear reason to give up, whether with regard to the meeting or the right of veto. –  Mr President, we have set ourselves two objectives, namely to guarantee fishing activities along our coasts whilst also preserving the breeding of fish stocks. These two objectives are shared by all. We had to make a choice, as the rapporteur has, to either change the entire system, at the risk of destabilising everything or to adapt what we could. We chose the second proposal of the two, which was also my preferred option. Two principles should then be respected: firstly, that of access to waters – to the 6-12 mile coastal band, I believe – this is already provided, and secondly, the principle of relative stability, which was also taken into consideration. These two choices are fundamental and I hope that Parliament will ratify these. I will mention three of the changes that we must make. I am convinced that it is better to place TACs and quotas at the heart of the common fisheries policy, as they offer the greatest guarantees, particularly if they are multiannual. The second change is if multiannual guidance programmes (MAGPs) are retained – and they should be – we must assess the consequences they have for the safety of fishermen. Last year, in Brittany alone, which is where I live in France, we lost 25 men at sea. I imagine that you have a similar situation where you live. This is a considerable number, and it is obviously unacceptable. I think that we must step up safety at sea and enable our fishermen to continue to build new boats. We must not allow fishing fleets to become out-dated because this increases risks at sea. My last point concerns penalties. A good regulation is one that is applied to all equally. Fishermen feel that, even when two identical mistakes are made, the penalties imposed are different. I think that the Commission must pay particular care and attention to these three changes. –  Mr President, I should like to address my remarks on languages to my fellow Members, of course, but also to our interpreters, who enable this Parliament to function, to the rapporteur, of course, not for his work as rapporteur but because he is also a poet in this Parliament and, moreover, as I have discovered, one who speaks my mother tongue perfectly. What better rapporteur could there be? When one is a new Member of the European Parliament, as I am, one finds oneself dealing with all sorts of things: chocolate, end-of-life vehicles, the qualified majority, dried beans, Spanish lentils, anything and everything. Then, suddenly, one finds that one is going to have to deal with something that gives Europe its historic and cultural depth, namely its languages. And when one looks back at the great periods in history, and I am thinking here of the Renaissance, that great age of trade and commerce, what remains of that era today are the cultural achievements, the artefacts of our heritage, and thus will it ever be. In terms of languages, Europe has known times when a single language predominated: Latin, and also French. Now it tends to be English. So what are we to tell our fellow citizens for this year 2001. Let me just briefly mention a few points. Firstly, that European unity may not mean linguistic unity. Next, that every language is deserving of respect and deserves to be promoted and defended. This is applicable to any amount of things: monuments, objects, you name it. Why should it not be the case for mankind’s best and most lasting achievement, i.e. his method of communicating with his neighbour? And then, all languages are learnt within the family first of all. This is why we call them “mother tongues”, and no State, whatever it may be, may have the direct, indirect, explicit or implicit goal of destroying one of its mother tongues, or of allowing it to disappear. Furthermore, finally, without linguistic diversity, there is no Europe, because this is also one of the few, and perhaps the only, parliament in the world which operates in eleven languages, to the extent that occasionally we speak in this House for the purpose of being interpreted and not to be heard in the original. It is up to us to construct this dialectic of European unity and its linguistic diversity. – Mr President, Commissioner, Europe has never set itself limits. It began with six and could easily have begun with seven or eight. Even today, Article 3 of the draft constitution states that ‘the Union shall be open to all European states whose peoples share the same values’, but it refrains from specifying what a European state is at all. Yet it is never a good thing not to let people know where the borders are as this is more worrying for them than reassuring. Thus, each person has their borders in mind. For some people, including myself, they stop at the North African countries, which are our neighbours and friends; it is therefore appropriate to envisage optimum partnerships with them. The borders also stop at Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine as these countries form part of a whole, just as Russia does. They are also neighbours and friends. For many, the borders do not include Turkey or the Caucasus. We made this promise of integration 40 years ago, but it is by no means certain that the people agree with us. In fact, in this case, our neighbours would be Iran, Iraq and Syria. I believe that optimum associations must be proposed to this group. In any event, in order to ensure a successful future for Europe, we must set a limit to its expansion. You know the proverb: ‘Do not bite off more than you can chew’. . – The fisheries sector appears to be sailing through calm seas at present. As the fishery reform negotiations draw to a close, the professionals are drawing up the balance sheet for the next 18 months. With regard to public aid: while the Commission was pushing for an end to public aid from December 2002, the negotiations have led to the current scheme being prolonged until December 2004. Although the fishermen have been warned, the difficulties have not abated. In Brittany, nearly 75% of the fleet needs replacing. The use of safe, new boats, equipped with the latest technology to make sailors’ work easier, should be widespread. While hostilities in the public aid battle at Community level have been broken off for the moment, however, they will soon be resumed on the world stage. The Commission has presented a proposal to the World Trade Organisation asking for a ban on all subsidies in order to prevent overfishing, on the pretext of maintaining the sustainability of the fishing industry. With regard to restructuring plans, we have the example of the Scottish cod restructuring plan, whose consequences we know: the collapse of those fisheries which can no longer operate, increased pressure on other fishing grounds and stocks of other fish species, and more considerable pressure on markets. Mr President, Commissioner, it is a rare sitting in which maritime safety is not raised. This one is no exception, but has produced a consensus. Indeed, we are, I believe, largely in agreement with our fellow MEP’s report. Two or three words on two or three subjects. Firstly, places of refuge. I think, Commissioner, that, once the work is complete, it will be good to have a European register of places and ports of refuge and of refuge procedures so that people might be aware of these and have full access to the details. A few words, now, about the agency itself. It is located in Lisbon. I wish it good luck in the port of Lisbon, but it must not be forgotten that it must also be equipped with regional technical agencies and that we must proceed quickly. We must act in such a way that the operational side of the agency, its range of tools in effect, is put in place as quickly as possible. Regional technical agencies are planned, I believe, on the Atlantic coast, in the Mediterranean, on the Baltic and on the Adriatic. Finally, I read yesterday, in the Commission report on the financial perspectives for 2007-2012, that you were proposing a European border protection agency with a European Corps of Border Guards. I think that, in this context, we must also turn our attention to maritime borders. What you proposed concerning land borders is worth examining with a view to its being applied to the maritime sphere, not in an identical, but in an adapted, form. To conclude, Commissioner, I think that the work is far from being finished. There is one area in which it would be as well to maintain our efforts: that of flags of convenience because, in my view, as long as it is possible, through a lawyer covering for an anonymous and ultra-rich owner, to register a ship in Panama for USD 1 500, and to do so with complete discretion, threats will continue to hang over sailors and the environment. –  Mr President, Commissioner, the  is still lying at the bottom of the sea, off the coast of my home town. On behalf of the people of Brittany in France, I would therefore like to pay tribute to the people of Galicia in Spain, whose lives have also been affected by an oil slick. Europe’s work is dictated by one crisis after another. The attacks of 11 September produced a European arrest warrant; from the Sangatte centre emerged the right to asylum and substantial measures were drawn up as a result of the  disaster. The Commission has worked well, but what are we going to do now? We have the whole shebang: oil in the Atlantic and old bangers in the Pas-de-Calais. The only thing left to do is fill them up with petrol. Things just never change. We need to learn a lesson, so we will learn it. I am sure we will make the provisions on single-hull vessels more stringent, I am sure we will step up the measures on battered old boats, I am sure we will step up this, that and the other. I am going to make a suggestion, Commissioner: you should start to explore the idea of a European coastal guard, which does not work in the same way as in the United States but uses our method. You will see – because this is not necessarily our last disaster – this request will become increasingly popular in coastal communities. The people will demand it and they will not understand why the seas remain in this state. I am not telling you to do this in two minutes flat, but to start thinking about it, because, as usual, it will come to pass, as the result of the next disaster or the next crisis, in the same way that the European arrest warrant and many other measures have been introduced. This is the way Europe works. Since necessity is ultimately the mother of legislation, let us begin by adopting legislation where it is needed. –  Madam President, we voted in committee on the reform of the common organisation of the market in fishery and aquaculture products. It is a sensitive subject, but this report was especially necessary. The text on which we voted is a good text and we arrived at a good compromise. I believe that it is a compromise of the kind that the European Union is capable of achieving when it is able to both transcend national interests and defend the common interests. We know that the fisheries policy is one of the great European policies, even if it concerns very few Europeans, at least as producers, though many more obviously as consumers. Since it was established in 1970, the Community fisheries market has changed a great deal. Its regulation has adapted to this and this report must be defined as an additional stage in building a balanced organisation between the protection and the management of fishing resources. Today, the report submitted to us strengthens the place of the consumer and the producers’ organisations in the organisation of the market. Let us not forget, however, that this reform will have consequences for the fisheries sector. I shall refer to two of them briefly. Where will our auctions fit into all this, in view of the pre-sale contracts included under Article 12? This development should not involve a kind of ‘shift’ of our territories. Secondly, what will happen in the event of an economic crisis in the fisheries sector, if no provisions for exceptional circumstances are adopted? It would be better to make provision for all possible scenarios. This report does not deal with the questions of the future, or at least with some of them, but I believe that our committee has done a good job and your report, Mrs Fraga Estévez, deserves considerable support. Mr President, Commissioner, in the course of one minute I should like to point out to you six paths to be worked on during the next legislative period. Firstly, the European coastguards. Secondly, seafarers’ living and working conditions, which must be as good as possible on board. Thirdly, flags of convenience, making every effort to drive them out, and strengthening our position within the International Maritime Organisation. Fourthly, implementation of the regulations relating to port reception facilities. Fifthly, work on the concept of freedom of the seas, which is an old concept about which seafarers care but which will have to be studied carefully. We no longer transport wood, wine and stones but much more dangerous materials. Sixthly, ensure greater traceability of petroleum products. You know that the techniques for doing this exist, a sort of petroleum DNA, and when degassing is carried out or ballast tanks are emptied, this is a new lead for detecting the culprits. There, Commissioner, you have a number of points on which it must be possible to work during the legislative period that is about to start. Commissioner, Mr President, the Sharm el-Sheikh disaster will hang over aviation for a long time. We share the victims’ pain, but there is more! I think many French people, many Europeans have identified with the victims because they express part of our way of life. We try to break with the everyday, and to do so we travel far. We look for a change of scenery, sunshine in winter, and for that you have to go a long way. And then we look for cheap services, and for that, too, you have to go a long way. If we want this freedom or this mobility to last, then we shall have to increase air safety and be more strict, as we are over safety in other sectors. As a result, this air safety is going to become a top priority again because that, at least, is something over which we can and must have some control. Of course, we need first of all to know the causes of the accident. There is a lot of talk about them at the moment, but they are not really known. I think that is a necessity for all of us, even if for some the priority is to find someone to blame. A long time ago, in 1996, the Commission presented a proposal following the crash of an aircraft belonging to a Turkish airline. Nothing came of it because some States, Spain and the United Kingdom at the time, were in dispute over Gibraltar. Since then, an Aviation Safety Agency has been set up, but it cannot encroach on States’ air traffic control, and some of these States, France in particular, often use the pretext of their sovereignty to curb its activities. Another text has been under discussion since 2002. I hope that this time it will be agreed quickly and that the recent accident will speed us towards a solution. Lists have been made of rust-bucket ships. We must now do the same for aircraft. If some need to be done away with, let us make a list of them, Commissioner. Finally, like others before me I would like to stress that yes, it is wrong that a passenger who buys a charter ticket does not know which airline he will be flying with. We cannot demand labelling and traceability standards for GMOs but at the same time not worry about them for aircraft. Labelling and traceability are necessary in aviation as well. –  Commissioner, how can we convince you to restore state aid? You are as stubborn on this issue as a deep-sea fisherman. You have conceded a small amount of ground for vessels less than 12 metres long, which is positive. In my view, however, it is not because the money is public money that fish are disappearing! And you are well aware that without state aid, deep-sea fishermen, or a number of them at least, will prolong the life of their boats, using them for sea-fishing for longer. An old boat, however, is a dangerous boat. An old trawler is as dangerous as an old oil tanker. Here are the statistics from France, which were published a few weeks ago. According to the ‘Accident Investigation’ Bureau, there have been 30 shipwrecks and 22 people have died. What sort of boats are involved, however? All of them were more than 30 years old – that is obvious. Above all, however, most of them were modernised some months or not long before, in other words destabilised and made heavier, because fishermen have no other choice. I therefore believe and hope that, in December, you will also find an answer for vessels over 12 metres long as well, in other words, for small-scale fishing, which is dependent not only on the size of boats but on the skipper being on board too. You want to find a solution without increasing capacity. Fine. Small-scale fishing has no proper funding and so, without a boost from the state, nothing will change. For my part, I believe we need a solution other than ‘nothing’, so I hope that you will adopt a slightly more flexible approach by the end of our debate. .  Mr President, Commissioner, we have to look at this text again in the context of all the rules concerning maritime safety. It is just one element, one piece of the system of rules for the prevention of accidents at sea. The Commission’s proposal, as the Commissioner has just reminded us, is intended to make things easier, in other words to prevent overlapping and to limit administrative burdens. I can give you some figures here: the European Union has 120 000 sailors, including sailors of non-Community origin, whose numbers rose from 29 000 in 1983 to 34 500 in 2001. It is therefore a matter of legitimate concern to ensure that their training is the best possible and that it complies fully with the international convention known as the STCW Code, which is intended to safeguard human life at sea and to improve the protection of the marine environment, as well as to take action against vessels which do not comply with standards and rules on social dumping. In short, it is an example of the kind of rules that can be applied to globalisation. The text is concerned with two points. The first of these simplifies things with regard to the recognition of the training of sailors from third countries. The report is favourable towards this line, which I can sum up as follows: the initiative used to come from the Member States, whereas from now on it will come from the Commission. The current procedure is very complicated and time-consuming, and for this reason it needs to be simplified. The second point is concerned with bringing the text into line with the language requirements of the STCW Convention. The Commission also supports your proposal to introduce a common language, whether that language is known or learned, in cases where a vessel puts to sea with sailors originating from different countries, so as to ensure that there is dialogue between the vessel and those people on land who are responsible for it. The competent committee and the committee whose opinion was sought, and which is involved in the drafting of the report, want things to proceed rapidly, rather like what happened in the case of the abolition of single-hulled vessels. Let us not delay, because we can all remember the double accident – I would even say the triple or quadruple accident – which happened off our coasts, involving the ‘’, the ‘’, the ‘’ and the ‘’. Given the fact that we are never entirely protected from accidents, we need to take our decisions rapidly, hence the spirit of compromise which, I believe, prevailed at the informal tripartite meeting on 17 June between the Commission, the Council and Parliament, of which I shall give you a rapid résumé. In Amendments Nos 3, 12, 15 and 17, Parliament had proposed the recognition of individual training institutes. The Commission told us that it was impossible to inspect them individually, quoting as an example the Philippines, where there are perhaps as many as a hundred. It is therefore necessary to consider the country as a whole, even if it has only one or two institutes. We have taken note of this guideline. Parliament wants to make provision for the introduction of a certificate of compliance so as to reduce fraud to a minimum. At the meeting, the Commission gave an undertaking – and I believe that we should stick to this line – to propose a draft text on this subject during the course of the year. That would be the condition on which we would be willing to support your opinion. Amendment No 10 poses a problem for Member States regarding continuing training, to the extent that such training has to be funded by the sailors’ own states and not by the European Union. We have taken note of this argument. On the other hand, our committee does not wish to drop Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which are concerned with the upgrading of the occupation of seafarer. The same thing applies to the quality guarantees and the guarantees preventing fraud. As far as Amendment No 23 is concerned, which refers to an evaluation report to be submitted after five years, I think that you agree with this proposal. Our committee was also asked to amend the time limit for the transposition of the legislative provisions in Member States. We had suggested 12 months, while you are proposing 18 months. We can take note of this suggestion. Finally, Amendment No 19 has been amended by the Council, and we are able to accept the new version. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I think there are a few areas in which the European Union should make a commitment. Among them I would include, although these are not related to the White Paper, training, because performance depends on knowledge; research, because our growth depends in part on innovation; and transport, because the sustainability of our development depends on the quality of transport. That is why the Union needs resources. It needs money. The idea of a European fund is therefore not a bad idea. I still remember what Jacques Delors used to say: we need a great European loan in order to carry out great work. Naturally, that is out of date today. It sounds rather old-fashioned, but economics is not a science. Sometimes old ideas return, and just because Mr Keynes has returned to an old way of thinking, that does not mean the idea is bad. Beyond this financial aspect, I would like to draw your attention to three other aspects. First of all, Europe is enlarging eastwards, and our territory is therefore becoming unbalanced. I believe the Commission should keep an eye on all the outermost areas of Europe, whose geographic makeup is complex, composed of islands, mountains and peninsulas, and that we need to ensure that enlargement does not displace Europe too far towards the East. I am putting the case here for the Atlantic coast in the West of Europe, although I am sure you are sensitive to its needs. The second aspect is that Europe has many ports, many shores and many coasts. We must therefore spare no expense with regard to maritime navigation. We could probably do more. That would mean, with regard to maritime safety, that we should continue in the direction you have taken, which I believe to be the right one. Lastly, the third aspect: our regions. We need to make progress with our regions on the transport dossier. Regional policy might comprise tripartite contracts in future and, from that point of view, transport is a good subject associating States, regions and Europe as a whole. I believe that this White Paper and this task provide a good opportunity for the Commission to build all these links. . –  Mr President, I fully agree with the Commissioner’s words, but I shall try not to repeat them. The aim of this directive is to improve safety and, as is unfortunately traditional, is seeking to do so following a series of accidents. It is very simple: when ships sustain damage, they must remain accessible to search-and-rescue teams for as long as possible so that the greatest possible number of human lives can be saved. Studies and experience have shown that, to this end, the quantity of water on deck must be limited as much as possible. The IMO, the International Maritime Organisation, naturally became involved very early on in these issues and concluded what is known as the ‘SOLAS’ agreement in 1990 for a certain height of water to be allowed – but I shall not go into the technical details – stipulating that all ships should comply with this agreement and its standards by 1 October 2010 at the latest. As you may remember, however, In September 1994, the Estonia disaster occurred in the north of Europe, causing 800 deaths. Following this disaster, eight Northern European countries, seven EU countries and Norway, worked together to adopt stricter standards than those in the 1990 agreement in order to prevent ships from capsizing. The question, for the Commission and for us, was knowing what needed to be done once these new standards were introduced, whether they needed to be extended to the whole of the Union or whether a distinction could be made between the north and south of the Union. Once the technical and financial studies had been carried out, the Commission rightly proposed extending these standards to the whole of the Union under the conditions the Commissioner has just explained. That is therefore what will happen. It is considered possible and reasonable and the cost to companies is deemed acceptable. There will thus be no difference between passengers travelling by ship in the north and those travelling by ship in the south. Obviously, a number of ships have only recently been subject to these ‘SOLAS’ standards, so requiring them to adopt such a directive means asking them to start again. We must therefore consider the matter of the timing and date of the final deadline. In a spirit of compromise that everybody will understand, the Commission, the Council and Parliament have reached an agreement to conclude all of this in the year 2015. That is the essence of the fundamental amendment tabled. A few other amendments have also been tabled, which allow for adoption at first reading. I would therefore advise the House, and I believe Mr Ripoll will do likewise, to resolve this matter as soon as possible, as it does not pose any major political problems, and all ships and companies operating in waters governed by EU law should comply with the standards as soon as possible. In this way, the risk of accidents and loss of human life will be kept to a minimum, even if there is no such thing as zero risk in our society. –  Madam President, I would like to begin by echoing the comments made by my fellow Members from Galicia and to say that I shall support all their initiatives. My region was affected by the  and  disasters; their region has been struck by the sinking of the , but the ship’s name does nothing to ease the problems of those living in the region and of the Galician fishermen. Commissioner, the conception of the new fisheries policy is problematic but the fledgling policy is due to come into force on the evening of 31 December. I think that the Committee on Fisheries has worked hard to restore a balance between the exploitation of fishery resources and the protection of these resources for future generations, without forgetting the economy of coastal regions. In any case, we are seeking a better balance between these two areas than that put forward in your proposals, one that corresponds to sustainable development in the correct sense of the word. This applies, of course, to fish stocks, where this balance is needed, but it also concerns coastal economies. And we tried to draw your attention, in these three reports and in others, to the implications of the political decisions regarding employment in regions that are dependent on fishing, to the consequences of scrapping boats, since of course, if we scrap them and fish levels increase in the future, there may not be any fishermen left to fish them. We must keep our heads. We must also ensure that our fishermen do not use boats that are too old, which they make last longer and that they overload with equipment, thus running all kinds of risks. Our committee, in all its debates and through its rapporteurs, is seeking to influence the final decisions of the Commission and the Council. Of course, there are good decisions and we should highlight them, such as controls and sanctions, involving the relevant parties in the decision-making processes, improving knowledge of fishing techniques and resources. In short, if all this is done, if the balance is maintained, our fishermen will be able to continue to have faith in their work, in their business and we in our regions. . –  Mr President, my report also relates to the implementation in the fisheries sector of Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which concerns the EU’s ultra peripheral regions. The Treaty acknowledged the specific nature of these regions, and also defined them according to both their handicaps and the difficulties they face, which are due to their remoteness, their insularity, often because of their difficult topography and climate, and even occasionally their economic dependence. Since the Treaty was signed, it has enabled the policies affected to be legitimately adjusted whilst safeguarding the coherence of the Community legal system. In the fisheries sector, three Member States are affected; Spain, Portugal and France. Seven regions are also affected and these are the Azores, Madeira, the Canary Islands, Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique and Réunion. Many special measures are therefore permitted, namely, the Structural Funds, for both fishing and regional policy. This adjustment has, of course, been approved in the report that I am presenting. Some amendments have also been tabled, which I would like to take you through briefly. I tabled one in particular, which was adopted by the Committee on Fisheries. This is Amendment No 5, which concerns the FIFG intervention level, the financial instrument, in the ultra peripheral regions, which is very important for those involved, in other words, the fishermen. The Commission is proposing to increase the Community contribution for these regions, which is a positive step, up to a maximum of 85%, with the exception of fleet renewal and modernisation of fishing vessels and pilot projects, where the contributions remain exactly the same as in the previous regulation and are therefore unchanged. My amendment and the amendment tabled by the Committee on Fisheries are therefore based on this ‘exception’. Basing its argument on the current state of stocks and the need to protect them, as well as the obligation to maintain equivalent fleet capacity, the Commission is proposing that neither should the rate of Community assistance be raised nor the rate of private self-financing reduced for fleet renewal and modernisation. This position does not appear to point in the right direction and does not fulfil the Treaty objectives designed to help the economies of the ultra peripheral regions catch up with the remainder of the EU. We should, therefore, and this is what is being proposed to you, adjust the rates in Group 2. This would have a positive impact on the development of inshore fishing and the improved processing of catches and would also meet the expectations of those working in the sector. Moreover, even though there may be over-capacity in more central areas, this is not the case in all the ultra peripheral regions, or at any rate, it is much less certain. Lastly, Parliament has stressed the need to improve safety on board vessels. Vessel renewal and modernisation in the ultra peripheral regions is a key element in providing fishermen with proper working conditions. This amendment proposes, therefore, to increase the A rate or the proportion of the European Union to 50% and the C rate or the proportion of other national or regional contributions to 40%. In my view, this amendment to the report is essential. There is a second amendment, Amendment No 6 by Mrs McKenna, which does not present any problems. It states in the report that these adjustments and changes must not be used to maintain the system of flags of convenience; we must, therefore, include a sentence in this report which refers to some kind of legal precautionary principle in this matter. Lastly, there are Amendments Nos 7 and 8, which raise the issue ofnon-retroactivity. This issue was raised at the meeting of the Committee on Fisheries. The Commission was, moreover, not very specific, and was even hesitant, not to mention the fact that it did not provide an answer in its reply. The amendment is still on the agenda, since it was re-tabled. The opinions of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and theCommittee on Agriculture and Rural Development are positive. At the beginning, the Committee on Fisheries did not deliver a favourable opinion, at least not wholly favourable, and took the view that this principle of non-retroactivity was a fundamental principle of Community legislation. Given that the two other committees delivered a favourable opinion, however, and that the European Commission was not very specific, I propose to deliver a favourable opinion. If this turns out to be absolutely impossible from a legal perspective, the law will settle the affair. If it is possible, we must do so, and if we do, we will have voted in favour of a very good cause. –  As the last speaker, Commissioner, I can either repeat the comments of those who have already spoken or oppose them. I will try to make one or two additional points. In my view, if the European Constitution does not include a substantial chapter or article on public services, its authors will be in danger of playing into the hands of those who want it to be rejected. They must take heed, forthe Constitution is to be ratified by referendum! My second point is as follows. If the concept of public services is not present, our citizens will stop believing in a European social model and see it as devoid of sense. This concept must therefore be introduced. Lastly, Commissioner, beware of ideologies! Just because the communist system of ‘all state’did not work in the twentieth century, that does not mean that the capitalist system has necessarily got it right. Do not fall into the trap of jumping from ideology of ‘all state’ to the ideology of ‘all market’. The god of competition does not need a monument. Mr President, Commissioner, it is true that our legislature will have seen important steps forward in maritime safety and I would like to congratulate the Commission on its work. For me, the duty, or rather the right, to criticise you when necessary goes hand in hand with the duty to congratulate you when appropriate. And so far as safety at sea is concerned, I think the Commission has performed its task well and served the European general interest. While this report is not the greatest of all reports, it must nevertheless be seen as one of the achievements of the last four years. Having said that, the task has not been completed and you only have to read the Sterckx report to see how much a new legislature will be necessary in order to complete the work. However that may be, the starting point is simple: every vessel has a flag that belongs to a country, since there is no European flag. A move was made in that direction 15 years ago, but nothing ever came of it. The first text on changing registers goes back more than 10 years. The Commission proposal and the accompanying report by Parliament seek to adapt to the new situation, because a lot of water has flowed under the bridge since then. Like the Commission text, this report has three main thrusts. Firstly, it includes passenger ships. They were not included in the first directive for the reason given at the time, namely that the rules differed greatly from one State to another. That is why our committee and Parliament did not include passenger ships in the text at that time. Since then, however, a lot of important decisions have been taken – I am thinking in particular of the SOLAS convention – a lot of improvements have been made, rules have been aligned on many points, and it therefore seems appropriate now to include passenger ships in the regulation. The second thrust of the report involves a very similar argument, since it is about coordinating Community instruments in the area of maritime safety, in short integrating all the legislation that has been adopted piecemeal, in particular the packages known as Erika I and Erika II. Finally, the third thrust seeks to increase cooperation between national maritime authorities. These are therefore the three thrusts of my report, which, of course, correspond to those of the Commission proposal. While it is important to complete these reforms, it is also because Europe is about to grow and enlarge to take in ten new states. May I remind you that we are, indeed, about to welcome 10 States, but two in particular are island States with very large fleets, Malta and Cyprus, and it seems a good idea to get these rules settled before 1 May 2004. That is why the text should be adopted after just one reading in Parliament, as we did for single hulls at the time, so as not to lose time but to make maritime safety the objective rather than fighting over pure and simple questions of procedure, the idea being to find the most intelligent compromise, or at the very least the least stupid one possible. A number of amendments have been tabled by the Council, and your rapporteur proposes that they be adopted since they do not change the substance of the text. Some are technical changes, for example, specifying the ships to which the regulation does not apply, warships in particular. Some amendments also allow States to apply rules different from those of the SOLAS convention provided they are no less strict, while other amendments require each State to present an annual report and insist on the first of them to facilitate the implementation of the regulation. The most important demand comes from the Commission, which is insisting that, unlike other vessels, a vessel that has been detained more than once following an inspection in a port during the three years preceding the application for change of register should not be able to benefit from a simplified procedure. In short, it is a precaution for ships that have shown a number of weaknesses when controls were carried out. One of our colleagues has tabled an amendment seeking to have the emblem of the Union appear on the flag that changes register. I think that is a nice symbolic amendment and our committee voted in favour, but the Council does not want to adopt the amendment because it would only apply to vessels changing register and not to all of them. I am willing to abandon it, but I hope that one day the emblem of the Union will appear on our vessels’ flags so that, while the national flag will still appear, the little corner of Europe, too, will cross the seas of the globe. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the essence of this report and I hope it will have your backing. –  Mr President, Commissioner, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs had quite a struggle over this issue of combating social exclusion. I should like to point out that it was more or less unanimous throughout the procedure, and was served by an excellent rapporteur. However, conciliation, which we had thought would be easy, since we were so much in accord with the Council’s motives when it adopted the Commission’s proposal, proved surprisingly tough and difficult. I should therefore like to remind the House, briefly, of the reasons for our insistence. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and, I am sure, Parliament as a whole, approves the choice of the open-cooperation method. It has proved its worth in this area. We also agree that social exclusion is a complex and multi-facetted process, and that it is necessary to study it in greater depth, particularly as regards its links with poverty. There are people on the margins of society who are not poor, and not all poor people are excluded, but the area of overlapping is a very large one. It is not possible to separate the two problems. However, one of the major strengths of the open-cooperation method is the fact that it allows the exchange of good practice. It is here that Europe has a responsibility, or I would prefer to say a duty, to experiment and to lead by example. The information already collected enables us to launch innovative schemes and pilot projects with confidence. In addition, Commissioner, you are a politician, as we are. How could you imagine for a moment that we could sell to our voters the idea that, on a problem as serious and as evident as social exclusion, Europe is able only to finance studies, and is not able to take any practical action? This sort of thing is suicidal as far as Europe’s image is concerned, hence the innovatory approaches that you have finally conceded to us. Fortunately you have other mechanisms, we know, but given the importance of this preoccupation it was necessary to include it. The controversy over the budget arises from this. You have granted us only five million. Since we know that you had plans ready for carrying out these studies, we would like to have a guarantee that there will be money available for innovative experiments. In the same way, the NGOs must be able to work without having to look for unlikely external sponsors. Well, we have achieved this, and the text has been improved. I wish the Commission all the best in carrying out the task that lies before it. –  Mr President, when the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs decided to present this question to the Council, it wished to focus on two specific and interrelated points: firstly the free movement of third-country nationals following the decision of the Tampere European Council and secondly, the expected legal base for this. At the time, our question was also, of course, related to the preparations for the Nice Summit, since we hoped that decisions in favour of social policy and freedom of movement would be taken. Since then, particularly in the lead-up to that European Council, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has had occasion to look into the issue of freedom of movement in more general terms. This more general consideration has proved useful in indicating to us that, before extending freedom of movement to third-country nationals, we must, of course, ensure that it operates smoothly for European Union citizens. We were concerned to note, however, that Regulation 1408/71 was becoming less and less appropriate, and that every month saw further postponement of moves to modernise and simplify it. This is a serious situation, for freedom of movement is one of the truly fundamental principles of the European Union. This is what enables EU citizens to move, reside and work without obstruction. That is why Regulation 1408/71 – which was originally designed to coordinate national social security systems – is one of the keystones in Citizens’ Europe, and any obstacle or delay to its being modernised is a serious matter. Permit me, Mr President, to take these three aspects in turn. Firstly, let me hark back to the wording of our question. Firstly, what do we have to say regarding the extension of Regulation 1408/71 to third-country nationals? We are forced to note that the action taken by the Council does not always, or rather does not yet – which is not quite the same thing, reflect the expressed political will of the Tampere European Council of 15 and 16 October 1999 to create within the Union, I quote, an “area of freedom, security and justice” in which “the legal status of third-country nationals should be approximated to that of Member States’ nationals.” Indeed, I would remind you that Parliament had already decided the same thing in October 1998, when the Commission proposal under review at that time was adopted, without amendments, by Parliament. In other words, the Commission had taken the initiative, Parliament had supported the proposal in a clear vote and the European Council at the highest level, in Tampere one year later, gave legitimacy to this policy direction. Yet, in 2001, the Council has still not adopted a common position to enable us to continue the procedure. What is the reason for this intolerable delay and this denial of political will by the Heads of State and Government even though, for once, there is perfect agreement between the three institutions, when this is not always the case? Apparently this is due to the question of the legal base of this text, which sets the Council against the position adopted by the European Council and the Commission. But if you will permit me to express this legal dispute in readily accessible terms, what is the Council after in opposing this legal base? It is seeking to take the European Parliament out of the codecision procedure (you will tell us that it could do this). That is what is at issue. So, do not shake your head! You are rejecting our right to take part in codecision. This business does not affect just the role of the European Parliament; it is of direct political interest to the citizens of Europe. The extension of Regulation 1408/71 to third-country nationals is such a sensitive issue that the citizens of the European Union ought to be fully involved in the form of the European Parliament, which represents them. That is why the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs cannot accept the reference to other legal bases other than those given in the Commission proposal, and would like to point out that Regulation 1408/71 cannot be amended except through the codecision procedure. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what we are challenging in the Council proceedings is one and the same issue, whether it concerns European Community citizens or third-country nationals. In both cases, the slow progress of work in the Council is obstructing the development of free movement. The Council cannot shirk its responsibilities; it must apply the decisions of the European Council and apply them transparently with regard to public opinion and in proper compliance with democratic rules while respecting the role of the European Parliament. Failing to go down this route, Mr President, would doubtless impel the Members of the European Parliament to respond firmly – and with public support, we have no doubt – and to take action to oppose these obstacles to free movement. I would add that my protest is not, of course, directed at the Swedish Presidency as such but at the Council. Indeed I believe that the Swedish Presidency, on the basis of its traditions, may make a great contribution towards solving this problem. Finally, I would like to conclude on another matter relating to the imminent future of the European Union, enlargement. The Committee on Employment deems it essential for the countries involved in the next wave of enlargement to be informed of the various outstanding proposals regarding reform of the relevant article in Regulation 1408/71. The issue of freedom of movement is, as we are well aware, one of the sensitive aspects of the accession negotiations. What are the Council’s plans in this area? –  Mr President, two minutes, six points. First of all, Saddam Hussein is already a hardened war criminal. He clearly intends to continue. The only remaining doubt concerns the means still available to him. Secondly, no situation, however serious, justifies contravening the fundamental principle of public and private morality, in other words, we must not use means that jeopardise the achievement of the objective we are pursuing. Our objective here is to build peace, to refuse pre-emptive war in favour of negotiations, weapons inspections and the establishment of the Rule of Law. Thirdly, I have rarely seen situations in which so little attention is paid to the study of what could occur should force be used. We are only discussing the legitimacy of the decision and decision-taking procedures. We are not considering what this could lead to. Mr President, Europe already has a Military Staff. We are preparing a rapid-reaction force. We should at least ask it to consider the various possible consequences. Quite frankly, I have never seen such a lack of reflection. Fourthly, President-in-Office of the Council, Europe needs a strong, clear, public position, and is capable of this. Many of us have asked you to communicate the European Union’s position in writing to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and make it public. Fifthly, the main thing in this matter is to adhere to the UN rules on two counts. The first is to convince the United Nations not to change the rules once the game has begun. This is also part of behaving with common decency at an international level. The second aspect proposes solving the problem in two stages: first, with regard to inspectors and their right of work, and second, lastly, taking account of what would happen should Saddam refuse, in other words the use of Chapter 7 of the Charter. We are not pacifists. I believe it is possible to have recourse to force. Saddam Hussein is dangerous, but it is the legality of this operation that is key, in particular with regard to the world as a whole. Lastly, Mr President, all this is not at all anti-American. On the contrary, it involves preserving the Rule of Law with the agreement of an overwhelming majority – as shown by surveys – of the American people today, in order to prevent a government, intoxicated by its own strength, from forgetting the law when it thinks of the power it could use. .  Mr President, Commissioner, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport has the honour to submit for debate, and then to a vote here in this House, a report about which there has been much discussion. It brings to a temporary conclusion an adventure which has been somewhat unhappy. It is a report on which your rapporteur is in the minority, so all I can do is to tell you its history. This is the first time, in the two and a half years during which I have been fortunate enough to work with Mrs Reding, that I find myself in disagreement with her – friendly disagreement, but very clear disagreement nevertheless. She is well aware of this. She has even alluded to it briefly. The idea that every year one city in Europe should be the European Capital of Culture is an idea that originated with Melina Mercouri in 1985. At first, Mr President, that idea had a brilliant future, at a time when fierce competition brought together a number of candidate cities in a contest to win a single designation, and when a jury of experts gave its verdict on the real European interests of each of the plans of the candidate cities. In 1999, the unfortunate Decision 1419 was proposed by the Council, supported by the Commission and approved by Parliament, and it governs, until 2019, as Mrs Reding has just reminded us, the list of Member States which, at the rate of just one per year, are responsible for proposing the European Capital of Culture. First of all, that decision takes no account of the fact that, even at the time, there was a prospect of the possible accession of at least ten new Member States, and the fact that it did not do so is unacceptable. Secondly, it left itself open to criticism, if not scandal, in both legal and political terms, since it practically prohibits the European Parliament in the next two legislative periods, i.e. those beginning in 1999 and 2004, from exercising, for five years, its powers to contribute towards the annual choice of the European Capital of Culture. Finally – and this is at least as serious – although some Member States have submitted to the European institutions and the jury a list of two or three cities, thereby enabling a real choice to be made between them on the basis of the dynamism, innovation and European dimension of the projects, not all have done so. Member States’ recent choices have often related to a single city, chosen for reasons concerned with the local-election policies of the government currently in power, and without the city in question having shown any real interest in assuming this role. This amounts to forced labour, all the more so since assistance from the European budget for these activities represents less than 5% of the expenditure that they involve. What we need to do, Mr President, is to start again from scratch. At the beginning of this debate, several months ago, my committee agreed unanimously with that. Mrs Reding was aware of it too, and she knows it is true as well as I do, even though she has just told us again that this will be something for a second stage, in the autumn. The evidence shows that we need to revise the list and change the order after 2008, because it  possible, Commissioner, contrary to what you have just said, to integrate new Member States, provided that those Member States already designated for the years after 2009 would agree to a little delay. It was perfectly possible and it was very simple because, Mr President, it is essential to realise that a city needs five years in order to prepare itself. Obviously, therefore, it would be necessary to revise the list, change the order after 2008, reintroduce competition between cities and reinstate the importance of the role of the jury which, when there is only one ‘Capital’, obviously has no role at all and is no use for anything any more. It has, moreover, said as much, in writing, with delightful diplomatic acidity. However, the Council was watching and the Commission did not dare to confront it. Therefore you now have a proposal for a decision which I would describe as astounding and which consists of deciding that, with effect from 2009 and up to 2019, there will be two European Capitals of Culture per year – one in a current Member State and one in a new Member State – and it will still be the Member States who will designate the candidate cities, without their being under any obligation to submit alternative choices to the European institutions. Mrs Reding will even refuse an amendment by the PPE-DE Group, despite the fact that it was pushing in that direction. To choose two European Capitals of Culture a year at a time when the procedure is almost stifled is exactly the opposite of what we should be doing. We shall simply make the dilution and obsolescence even worse. The jury still has no significance and the next two Parliaments are not allowed to participate in the selection process. The Commission’s promise to submit to us, in autumn, a new draft decision amending this system, is merely a decoy. If we adopt this draft now, Commissioner, I do not see how, in autumn, we can go back on the date of 2019, the order in which Member States are listed and, above all, the fact that two capitals a year will be designated, leaving that task to the two Member States in question. I believe, moreover, that you will not be able to get the directive you have announced adopted, because you have become tangled up in the main substance of the problem. That is my prediction. However, the Council is watching and it has been using intimidation. The three Member States involved in the crucial period of 2009 to 2011, which are Austria, Germany and Finland, have been afraid that their designation will be called into question, though no one was actually thinking of this. The PPE Group has been taken in hand. We are faced with a decision which serves the prestige interests of our Member States, but surely not those of Europe, which would have been to revitalise and give back the sparkle to what was an excellent procedure. Anxious to keep the peace amongst us, and my personal friendship with Mrs Reding, I had proposed, and the Socialist Group had agreed with me, to accept our defeat at the committee stage and to decide not to put forward our amendments at the plenary session. After all, my mother brought me up properly and I am still a polite boy. However, our Green friends took up these amendments again, as is their right. You are therefore faced with two sets of amendments which are entirely incompatible. First of all there are the amendments of Socialist origin, though now supported by the Greens. These amendments are aimed at going back to the old system and to committing ourselves for the future only as far as 2010, reserving the right of the next Parliament to ask the Commission to propose, in autumn, a new list of Member States including the new ones, and to order those who can to organise a broad competition between cities, so that after some candidates have been eliminated the final decision is left to the jury of experts, which needs to be given that role if it is to be of any use, and to the European institutions. The other set of amendments, which comes mainly from the PPE Group, validates and sets out in detail the Commission’s proposal which, in my opinion, makes any decision this coming autumn completely pointless. This set of amendments, however, requires that those Member States which are able to should propose several cities – and, Mrs Pack, you have just heard that there will be no question of this, because Mrs Reding will be obliged, by the constraints under which she is suffering, to deny you this. This set of amendments claims to encourage competition between cities but it does not explain how, because it does not deal with the problem of the numerous smaller Member States which have only one important city, which would call for a revision of the list of Member States, which is something which will have to be done in the autumn. This opening up of the competition, however, has now been refused. There you have it, Mr President: Members will vote according to their conscience. Once again, I would like to say that the Commissioner, Mrs Reding, is not as much to blame as the Council of Ministers, which is stifling the emergence of any truly European spirit and imposing a system whereby Member States set out their stalls displaying their national heritage and talents, while at the same time resolutely denying the authority of this Parliament. Faced with this situation, I have a feeling of relative sadness, but of course I am speaking as the defeated party. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, often in this Parliament – and I will surprise no one by saying this – our debates are not terribly exciting and we address rather complex issues. As Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport and having only just left a meeting of this same committee where we were voting without you, Mrs de Sarnez, I should like to say here that it was with widespread, indeed unanimous, enthusiasm that the Culture Committee worked on Mrs de Sarnez's excellent report. To be quite frank, when we saw the Commission document we thought the idea was excellent and we agreed that in some respects the Commission was almost being too cautious. Firstly, in respect of the budget. It is just as well that we were there to increase it a little. I might say straight away that this Parliament's Culture Committee does not consider the EUR 230 million to be sufficient and tends to think that it will have to be supplemented further. Moreover, if you think of the world today and the considerable number of large countries who, for reasons of international uncertainty, give the impression of being closed off, the fact that it is precisely under such conditions that Europe should choose to open up completely is of exceptional significance in our view. In the same way, we wanted to reinforce, consolidate and write in stone how valuable a degree such as the European Union Masters is. The Commission text tended to give the impression of any old studies leading to the award of a little certificate. We wanted to consolidate this qualification, this Master’s degree. In addition, Mr President, we thought it was very important to tighten up the wording on the learning of two foreign languages in this context. Where the Union's language policy is concerned, we have often protested in this Chamber about those governments who were not making it compulsory to learn two foreign languages in their countries. Some still do not do so. We will exert all the pressure we can in support of this policy and we are pleased to have found an opportunity to do so here. Finally, I should like to say that opening up European culture to students from throughout the world seems to me to be a wonderful initiative. –Mr President, Commissioner, throughout almost 6 000 years of human history and 10 000 wars, we have always encouraged the production of weapons. A certain degree of conscience, however, now seems to be dawning upon us. In 1972, we banned biological weapons. In 1993, we banned chemical weapons, and in 1997, we banned land mines. Nuclear proliferation is more or less under control, although we have been going through a very difficult phase since the signing of the Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1968, which then came into force in 1970. Nowadays, however, the weapons that take most lives are light weapons. There are estimated to be five hundred thousand million light weapons on this planet. They kill 200 000 people a year, which is twenty times more than land mines. More than half of victims are in Africa. So it comes as no surprise that the Secretary General of the United Nations, who is himself a great African, has put on the agenda of the UN General Assembly, which is due to meet next July in New York, the debate on a convention to try to limit this dangerous and terrible proliferation. The idea is to identify weapons so that they can be monitored, to keep a register of weapons, to encourage all States to strengthen their controls and their domestic legislation on exporting and re-exporting weapons, to organise the prosecution and punishment of traffickers and, finally, to finance and push forward national weapons’ collection and destruction programmes. Against such a backdrop, the European Union, which adopted a moratorium on the sale of weapons three years ago at the behest of Great Britain, would do itself credit by having an effective common policy and playing its full part. I welcome the fact that six political groups were able to table a motion for a resolution which is an excellent and timely compromise. I will not say any more. We must support it. It is totally in keeping with our code of conduct and with what has already been decided by the OSCE, and falls fairly and squarely within the scope of the next UN Convention. During voting time, Mr President, I will ask to table two oral amendments, which I know have already received general approval. The first is in the recitals. When the time comes, I will say where to add a citation to the Bamako Declaration of last month – a great historical first – in which 52 African nations took up a single position which was in perfect harmony with our code of conduct. The second addition would simply be a reference to the marking of weapons in the proposals of our compromise resolution. I know they have your backing and I will support them at the appropriate time. . – Mr President, Commissioner, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is competent ‘to protect the conditions of life and work, including the work environment’. This fine definition authorises us, therefore, to examine the situation of our assistants. Indeed it obliges us to do so. It would be odd if the committee I have the honour of chairing were responsible for all workers in Europe, the sole exception being the assistants in the European Parliament. That has, in fact, been the strange situation up to the present time. Far be it from me, however, to trespass on the competencies of the specific bodies of the European Parliament! That is why, Commissioner, when we heard the representatives of the assistants, we did it in the presence and with the cooperation of Vice-President Onesta, who was instructed by the Bureau of our Parliament to deal with these problems. Now the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs wants to make its contribution to the quest for innovative solutions. Most of our colleagues are fully familiar with the problems faced by the assistants, which range from job insecurity to the difficulties of legal establishment on Belgian territory, where many of them live.  The Bureau of the European Parliament has already taken a crucial internal decision designed to improve transparency in the management of secretarial allowances, which was mentioned in Mr Onesta’s report. I welcome this decision. It will enable assistants to have an employment contract in the prescribed form, social security cover, which not all of them have, and occupational accident insurance. There are, however, other problems that have not been resolved. These relate essentially to the specific situation of assistants, who are de facto cross-border workers, without their rights as such being recognised.  That is why the expert study commissioned by the European Commission contemplated using existing European legislation on the free circulation of workers and to incorporate into it the specific situation of parliamentary assistants. This solution appears both realistic and reasonable. It is realistic because much vaunted Regulation No1408/71, which all my parliamentary colleagues are familiar with and which governs the free circulation of workers, students and pensioners, etc, is not a text which has been set in stone. For more than five years it has been subjected by the Council to a process of simplification, dusting-down and improvement, which is to be wound up under the Belgian Presidency. At least that is what the European Parliament hopes.  This year we are being presented with amendments to the text. During the last part-session I think I understood correctly that a large number of my fellow Members wanted a general overhaul of the text rather than just technical improvements. Nonetheless, in February we approved the last amendment that both the Council and the Commission asked us to approve. In other words this text could easily be modified and adapted to the situation of the assistants and it could enable them to choose the country of establishment when it comes to matters of social security payments and it could guarantee their other rights to social protection. This realistic solution is also reasonable. The Council wanted the European Parliament to reform its relations with its assistants in the name of transparency. This first step was achieved thanks to the decision to which I have referred. It does not wish to tackle tax issues. Recourse to Regulation No 1408/71 does not make this necessary. Fine! The Council does not want to give assistants the status of officials. This is not what we are asking – it is very different. What we want is simply to guarantee their fundamental rights to social protection. In other words, all the conditions have now been met and we can now make real headway in this area. That is the reason, Commissioner, for our question to the Commission, which has always expressed its determination to make headway in this area hand-in-hand with the European Parliament. The Commission has the political initiative, but we now ask it to make use of it and to formally present a proposal to amend Regulation No 1408/71 by adding a simple subparagraph covering the situation of the assistants. It is then up to the Council to shoulder its responsibilities and to decide whether or not to keep our assistants and ourselves in a state of legal and social uncertainty. The European Parliament has already embarked on internal work to set the ball rolling. The way forward depends on the normal legislative process. It is up to the Commission to put forward a proposal now and Parliament will then be able to complete its work to issue internal regulations to deal with the question of the assistants. That is the thinking behind our question to the Commission. Within what timeframe, Commissioner, will this crucial text be proposed? The best solution would be before the start of the Belgian Presidency, since our assistants work in Belgium. It is a pressing matter, Commissioner, and it also affects the ethics and image of our Parliament. –  First of all, allow me to congratulate you, Commissioner Reding. In fact, in this period of gloom after the intergovernmental conference, this House does not often shake with enthusiasm. You have given us the opportunity to do so, which is a pleasure to hear. I have many questions, but I will put four of them to you. Three of them are concerned with what you have just said and one strays slightly from an issue that you dealt with, but it concerns our problems. My first question is this: could you be a little more explicit about what you just quickly touched upon as regards quadrupling the budget? Over what period? On what basis? Is this about the whole budget for culture, youth and the media? What news! We are starting with such a small amount. All the same, we would like to know a little more. My second question concerns languages. We know each other well, Commissioner Reding, and I admire the enthusiasm and the spirit with which you defend language initiation programmes and take on the defence of minority languages. In this context, it is the Council that is delaying. Will the Commissioner, in support of the programmes that she has just described, be prepared to go back to the idea that the Council must manage to put pressure on the Member States to make it compulsory to teach at least two modern languages? Furthermore, according to linguists, it would be preferable for one of these two languages to be outside of the linguistic family of the mother tongue. In this way, Europe would become multilingual and not dependent on our jargon that is similar to English. My third question concerns the cinema. It was a pleasure to listen to you on this point, Commissioner Reding. On the issue of promoting cultural diversity and defending it in the area of cinema, however, you did not mention this unsuccessful text that was – it seems to me – drawn up by the Internal Market Directorate General. In the name of protecting competition, it claimed to harmonise, but in fact it is to remove or completely change all our structures for helping cinema and that worries us all. In our opinion, this reasoning was stupid, but we would like to hear it from your own lips. My fourth question is a point of application. It concerns what you said on the issue of European high culture. You spoke about Bruges and Florence. I have just learnt that in Florence, following an international agreement fixing the budget of this institution, the notification sent to it was cut back by the Commission Secretary General by 20% compared with the sum agreed on and adopted by this Parliament, which is sovereign in Europe. Mr President, I beg leave to speak under Rule 146 of our Rules of Procedure. The debate on Turkey has taken up the entire morning, which has meant that the scheduled debate on the European Capitals of Culture could not take place. We are not disputing the fact that Turkey is a matter of prime importance. Nevertheless, this is the fourth time since I became chairman of the Committee on Culture that the discussion of cultural matters has been postponed, either to the late evening or to a Thursday afternoon, despite the importance of the subject. The first consequence of this situation is that we cannot vote on this draft, even though it is on the agenda. The second consequence is that, since we are now preparing for the election campaign, everyone will have left by the time we come to deal with this afternoon’s business. I therefore ask that the debate be rescheduled for 20 April, the Tuesday of the next part-session in Strasbourg. This request has the approval of my own group – the PPE-DE – and the Verts/ALE Group. I apologise for not having had the time to consult the other groups, since we have only known about this for half an hour. –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I wish Sweden good luck in its first presidency. The three Es are three good priorities that we share. I would like to talk briefly about enlargement. We support this as much as you do. It must be successful. We must never forget that success is largely dependent on our ability to manage our internal affairs properly as well. The legacy of Nice is not a good legacy. You will have to deal with it. However, to move on to your second priority, employment, which relates to my temporary position in Parliament. In the course of its development, the Union had five years to prepare for the external market, but with binding legislative instruments. It was the same for the euro. We are currently taking on the new challenge of improving employment and even achieving a return to full employment, as some dared to say at the Nice Summit, with our approval and we have all seen what could be achieved without binding legislative instruments. This means, however, that we should reinforce convergence and incentive instruments. This primarily means better coordination between macroeconomic, especially, in our case, macrofinancial policy, and employment policy in the European Union. Mr President, you will be chairing the new European Council in the spring, which will be the first Council to deal with general macroeconomic objectives along with employment objectives. You will set a precedent by forcing discussion and by forcing governments to compare results, rather than merely intentions. We also need coordination of all the various aspects of European policy in order to promote employment. Our competition policy is one of the best-defined policies and one that works the best. Should its only goal be to achieve healthy economic competition? Mergers and restructuring are frequent occurrences. What is their added value in terms of employment and growth? The Commission applies the current criteria. The Council would probably be well advised to adjust the balance of these criteria. Competition should also work in favour of employment. We have the same need for internal policy coordination in the Union reforms of public procurement contract procedures or in the regulations for services of general interest. I did have more questions but I am out of time. Mr President, Parliament is a place where we do not actually debate very much. You will get used to it and you will find it does not sadden you too much. It certainly saddens me. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for almost ten years now the Community institutions have been working on the issue of social protection, a major element of which is, quite clearly, health cover. Today, Member States, while retaining their own responsibilities through the direct application of the subsidiarity principle, nevertheless have problems in common which justify a debate at European level. The operation of social systems is directly affected by certain general trends including the unemployment and social exclusion generated by 25 years of low economic growth, which has restricted the overall potential tax yield, the ageing of the population, the consequence of the emergence of new diseases and, finally, increased health care costs due to advances in medical research and treatment. However diverse national situations may be, one can recognise in all Member States a more or less general reduction in statutory cover, an enhanced role for supplementary health insurance schemes and a marked increase in discriminating factors. Against this backdrop, a more global approach to health protection seemed to me to be necessary, taking account, of course, of the institutional context: responsibility for the organisation and financing of social insurance systems by the Member States; national social models shaped by history, and free competition governing the rules applicable to the insurance industry. Providing guaranteed access for all European citizens to high-quality necessary medical treatment within reasonable time limits is a primary objective towards which the efforts and financing of obligatory and supplementary systems must converge. Starting from the principle that every individual has a right to medical care and that healthcare is a social good to which all Member States must provide access, it is unacceptable that some are forced to simply abandon healthcare, allowing unwholesome systems to take their place which are disastrous for our societies. The Employment and Social Policy Council adopted a European strategy for the fight against social exclusion in Luxembourg on 17 October. The European Charter of Fundamental Rights, which will be officially announced at the Nice Summit, recognises the right to social security and to health protection as a common reference value. In its fight to combat discrimination and social exclusion, and in terms of the responsibilities of each individual, the European Parliament will take pride in giving a strong impetus to the establishment of a system which will allow the essential principle of solidarity to be practically implemented. To this end, I sought the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, which greatly clarified a number of points in a communication which was adopted with a very large majority. The opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the proposals of the draftsman, Ioannis Marinos, gave rise to a large number of debates and favoured the adoption of compromise texts. A broad consensus was finally reached within the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which I have the honour of chairing. The proposed system contains a number of approaches, the first of which is the development of a common vision of universal services which allow access to essential healthcare within a reasonable timeframe. The second is the establishment of a Community system to monitor health systems and their capacity to respond to specific needs: the collection of statistics and comparable data; the development of effective cooperation between the Member States and the pooling of good practice. It should be possible for this monitoring system to be organised by extending the tasks of a Community agency that has already been formed. The third approach is the presentation by the European Commission within a period of six months of a Green Paper examining a framework for supplementary health insurance schemes and proposing appropriate legislative initiatives. We have already called on the Commission to do this and, Commissioner, we are aware that it will involve a considerable amount of work. This will preferably be in the form of proposals for recommendations to include the following points: recognition by Member States of a common concept of a universal service to govern the basic service which will enable every European citizen to have access to the necessary care; establishing, in agreement with the private insuring bodies, guaranteed respect for the principle of non-discrimination; organising a system of pooling costs in order to cover the costs of persons and groups with serious existing diseases, and encouraging private insurers to develop preventative measures. There should also be a proposal for a directive to include the following points: a prohibition on the use of personal medical data, such as genetic typing, a key point; ensuring that persons joining a scheme are not in principle required to undergo a medical examination; the introduction of an obligation to provide lifelong insurance by the insurer; undertaking to reimburse persons working and moving within the European Union in a more coordinated way and, finally, introducing a mediation procedure. It would be necessary to consider encouraging and supporting the codes of conduct for insurers concluded on a national or transnational basis, and an annual forum to study these issues. –  Mr President, as I said earlier in the debate, and after consulting all the groups who appear to have given their agreement – though this will have to be confirmed – I would be happy to table two oral amendments which do not add anything new but which were forgotten in the haste with which our work was carried out. The first would come at the end of Recital E and would be to add: ‘as well as the Bamako Declaration made by 52 Member States of the Organisation of African Unity on light weapons and small arms’. The general opinion is that the declaration is important enough to be added. It was purely and simply omitted. The second oral amendment would come under point 2, in the fourth sub-point, and consists of a reference to the marking of weapons. I owe it to the subtlety of our fellow Members in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for having taken this amendment on board and for having found a more appropriate place to insert it into the text, and I thank the group for that. In other words, this amendment should be inserted after ‘the manufacture’ in the third line of the fourth sub-point of point 2. It should therefore read: ‘concerning, for example, the manufacture, marking, transfer and supply of small arms and light weapons’. –  Mr President, the chairman of the European Parliament’s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs could not remain silent in this debate. Thank heavens, my fellow Members have already said what needed to be said about the issue itself. I shall come back to this point. We are not terribly proud of the final result, but I should at least like to pay tribute to it, as some outcome had to be found. At this point, I should like to thank Mrs Smet, our efficient and indefatigable rapporteur, and Mr Provan, who was also the persistent and efficient chairman of our Conciliation Committees. I should like to thank all our coordinators, Mr Brok, Mr Hughes, Mrs Flautre, Mr Schmid, Mrs Lynne, who demonstrated great understanding in order to reach some sort of outcome. I should like to pay tribute to the Commission. Without wishing to embarrass you, Mrs Diamantopoulou, throughout almost all this debate Parliament has had the technical and even political support of the Commission, particularly on the important amendments. I have one small correction to make, unless I misunderstood, to what Mrs Smet has just said. It is not exactly the first successful conciliation on social matters between the European Parliament and the Council. It is the second, following the successful conciliation on the minor issue of workers working in an explosive atmosphere. This is, however, an infinitely more wide-ranging issue, of course. Mr President, I must point out how unusually tough the Council is to deal with. The political truth is that the Parliament team, in an astounding spirit of responsibility and unanimity – and you have witnessed the benign respect which I and Mr Bushill-Matthews, for example, have for each other – was remarkable for its united front as much as for its determination to succeed. Parliament made most of the running. We are not proud of the result in terms of the content. In a real democracy Parliament would have been determining the legislation. I would like to remind the Council that we are just as dedicated to achieving results, but that they must not expect Parliament to make quite so many concessions on a regular basis. –  Mr President, Commissioner, everything has been said. When the European Parliament’s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs took the decision to put this question to you, it had three objectives. The first was to assure our assistants publicly that this matter was being taken on board by the European Parliament. We have done that. The second was to make sure that the Commission, which itself had commissioned the expert, Mr Vandersanden, was prepared to capitalise on its work and to follow it up by taking precise administrative action. You have pledged to do this. Our third objective was to have a timetable, which was particularly related to the fact that the Belgian Presidency was just around the corner and that the problem essentially concerned Belgian social security. The Belgian Presidency must therefore deal with this matter, it cannot escape it, but the preparatory work must be done first. You have just given that assurance, for which I thank you. Just now, our fellow Member, Mr Pittella, justifiably called on us to arrive at a full and final solution to the problem of the assistants, and he was right to do so. We all know, however, that this will take time and it will involve a number of different stages and much effort. We need the involvement of the three institutions: the Commission, the Council and Parliament. We can, though, only do our work once you have done yours. The essential stage is always the next one. Thank you for pledging to help us get through it. –  Mr President, Commissioners, this is an oral question addressed to the Commission. Several months ago, the President, Mrs Fontaine, addressed the Lisbon European Council with concerns, to quote her, “the devastating effect [of unregulated mergers] on the Union’s social cohesion”. She urged the Heads of State and Government, and I shall quote her words once again, to “ensure that, before such mergers can take place, a serious assessment of their social impact is carried out so that the necessary accompanying social measures can be taken”. In so doing, Mrs Fontaine was highlighting the major problem of how to reconcile the necessary flexibility in businesses with the necessary safety of workers? Since Lisbon, Mr President, restructuring has intensified further. We now hear that there are more than three hundred mergers every year. Every new day brings further sources of anxiety for employees whether in the sectors of what is curiously termed the ‘old’ economy, which is the bulk of the economy, or in the new information technology sector. In this respect, the Nice Summit sent out some very positive signals. Overcoming the thirty-year deadlock on the European Company Statute, including the section on employee participation, and the adoption of the social agenda, illustrated the importance that the European Council attaches to improving the situation of the European Union’s workers. The request we would make of the Commission through this unanimous oral agreement – and let me stress that there was unanimity within the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs – is that they use this new political will as a firm basis to truly guide their proposals. It is our honour, therefore, to ask the Commission to make some specific commitments. First of all we want better provision to be made for the social effects of restructuring. How, for example, do you plan to use the new European Industrial Relations Observatory, to be operated by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions in Dublin, which this great House, the European Parliament, was so dedicated to creating? We would like you to undertake a reassessment of the existing directives on social matters with regard both to their record of implementation and to the new challenges presented by their restructuring. We urge you to propose the necessary revisions wherever they are needed, particularly in order to have stricter scrutiny of workers’ rights to information and consultation and as far as possible to bring forward the provision of information to the social partners in the restructuring process. In this regard, we would appreciate the Commission’s immediately proposing, now, not in 2002, as announced, revision of the current directive on the European works council, a directive which itself stipulated it would be revised after a few years. The time for that has now come. We also urge you to revisit the directive on collective redundancies in order to incorporate the procedures needed to prevent the requirement to inform workers being contravened. Finally we would like to see the internal procedures for competition policy within the Commission being amended in order to take greater account of social factors. We know that Mrs Diamantopoulou is not completely averse to this idea. Well, “not completely averse” is a polite way of saying it, as I am in fact fairly sure that she is in favour of the idea. Would it not be only natural, when a firm asks Brussels for permission to go through with a merger, for the Commission to ensure that the minimum requirements for the information and consultation of employees as laid down in Community legislation have indeed been respected. These, Commissioners, are our demands, which have a symbolic value as far as public opinion is concerned, a justified value as far as the employees are concerned, and, if I may say so, are useful as far as the economy is concerned, for how is it possible to manage a knowledge-based economy without the employees being involved? Within my committee, we were unanimous in our discussion of this oral question and also on a motion for a resolution that is now before us. I must point out that a further motion was tabled by the Liberal Group. As we are of one mind with our liberal friends, who voted in favour of the first resolution and, above all, in favour of the committee’s question, we think there has been some technical hitch and that our liberal friends did not receive proper information. Do not, at any rate, see this as discord. It is a matter we are going to sort out. Until now we have worked in perfect agreement, and that includes with our liberal friends. Commissioners, we impatiently await your responses. –  Mr President, Representative of the Council, Commissioner, once our debates and our speeches get to the point, we only talk about crisis management. Crisis prevention is the icing on the cake of all political debates because prevention is better than cure. We talk about peace, war and security but we do not know what to do. And this leitmotiv presented by our diplomats, our generals and our politicians is without substance. I would like to say, Mr President, Commissioner, that the concept of crisis prevention will remain devoid of meaning as long as we do not have the tools and the instruments to implement it. The key to conflict prevention is anticipation and we will only achieve this if we have specific strategic monitoring supported by genuine geopolitical and social observations instruments which are appropriate for the permanent monitoring of ethnic, linguistic and religious tensions. Yet, Mr President, Commissioner, the European Parliament, which has done a lot of work on this, voted in favour of two motions for resolution on this subject. One, in 1996, called on the Commission to create a  (CPN) to take on the role of strategic monitoring so that the analyses, diagnoses and proposals could be inter-European. The Commission set this up in 1998 and extended it in 2000. I would like to ask the Commissioner if the Commission is satisfied with the work that has been done. What lessons has it learned? What use has it been able to make of these reports? I would like to ask the Representative of the Council if the Council knows about this work. Has it ever, in spite of the Commission’s bureaucratic oppression, known about this work? Has it been of use to you? The other resolution was incorporated in 1997 and 1998 in two reports on Africa, one by Mr Martens and the other by me. This resolution called on the Commission to propose to the ACP countries, on the occasion of the negotiations which were to lead to the Cotonou partnership agreement, that Europe should provide finance and expertise to enable four regional observatories of ethnic, linguistic and religious tension to operate in Africa. Without such tools of anticipation, which Mrs Lindh spoke of earlier, though she did not actually talk about tools, we manage crises, but we do not see them coming. The Commission did not act on this suggestion. Nor did the Council. The idea, like the need, is still there. Does the Commission intend to take it up? Has the Council buried it? –  Mr President, I find, somewhat to my consternation, that the vote on the report I was to present in plenary and which is on this morning’s agenda has been postponed inadvertently without anyone noticing. I understand that it is not easy, but changes to the agenda are something we need to be notified of. As a rule I am always here on Thursdays. This afternoon, however, I have to give a talk. So I will not be here for the votes this afternoon because I was not warned in time. I am one of those Members who attends sittings quite faithfully. I too would move that the vote be postponed to the November II part-session. First, however, there is just one point I would like to add. This morning we witnessed a moment of particularly extreme parliamentary idiocy. I do not know how much roll-call votes cost, but no doubt it comes to hundreds of thousands of French francs, or Belgian francs, out of our budget. Just to please some people, under ludicrous conditions, we have wasted time and money. Mr President, I feel you should refer the matter to the Conference of Presidents, so that excessive numbers of requests for split votes or roll-call votes can be identified and perhaps roll-call votes can even be restricted. All this is out of order and Parliament made itself look ridiculous this morning. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, this directive and this debate are horrifyingly complex, and also doubly complex, in both legal and computing terms. The stakes, however, are extremely high: in economic terms, tens of billions of dollars, in philosophical terms, respect for human knowledge. Throughout the 6 000 years of our history, it is by means of copying that the enormous body of human knowledge has increased. The prerequisite was that access to the products of science, music, mathematics or of any other field should be free and without charge. Copyright compensates the author without calling these principles into question. When individuals use materials or harness natural forces, the costs change, the remuneration required is much higher, and patents make such remuneration possible by prohibiting the unremunerated use of the invention. A piece of software is nothing more than a collection of mathematical formulae; the creation of new software can use hundreds of pieces of existing software. Prohibiting or slowing down this creative development would constitute an attack on the dissemination of knowledge and nevertheless, in future, human knowledge will increasingly take the form of software. The 1972 Convention prohibits the patenting of any software but the needs of big business, which has taken advantage of the vagueness of definitions, have led to a surge in the number of such patents. The legal position of these thousands of patents is unclear and this is extremely dangerous for millions of individual creators or small businesses. You were right to want to put an end to this. We need a directive and your draft provides a good working basis, as you reiterated this morning. You were right to insist and to write that this is not about extending the scope of patentability, as you stated in some quite recent articles. We therefore support your motives, Commissioner, but as we have just heard, many of us, including my own group, consider that you have not followed your ideas through to their logical conclusion. You conclude your recent article by this admirable phrase which I applaud: ‘existing users of free software can continue to use this free of charge, regardless of future patents filed in this area’. Well done! This is what we want to hear. The technical provision of your directive, however, does not guarantee this freedom. We have, therefore, tabled amendments that make a distinction between an invention and a pure product of the human mind. The reference to materials and natural forces is not universally accepted and that is the subject of this debate. And yet this reference is the only one possible for preventing companies that are powerful enough to create and protect an enormous portfolio of patents from capturing an infinitely expanding amount of knowledge. When I read your words, Commissioner, I had the pleasure of thinking that you will agree with us and that you will thank us for having clarified your text. This directive alters the very definition of chocolate which should, in our opinion, be made from cocoa butter and beans. We do not have the right to mislead the consumer by using the name ‘chocolate’ to designate products which are not necessarily made from cocoa. Consumers require clear and specific information. They should no longer be deceived. Today’s vote went beyond the problem of chocolate alone and has threatened the confidence of our fellow citizens. This is why I voted for all the amendments which aimed to improve this directive and which were tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. –  Mr President, I believe we can all be very proud of this magnificent building which will soon, I believe, be known throughout the world and which will add to the prestige of the Union. Before making a few observations, I would like to draw your attention to the matter of tastes and colours. Personally, I like these colours a lot. Perhaps I am in a tiny minority, but even so. You know, we could be discussing colours for hours on end. Just now a fellow Member said, “ I hope there will be some pink”. Well, I don’t like pink! So I think we must try to be reasonable, to spend as little money as possible, and then we can all get used to it. However, I would like to add a detail regarding the specification. When we are told that the disabled access is not suitable for visitors, well, perhaps someone should have thought of that before. The specification was perhaps not precise enough, and I find it unfortunate that it is only now that we are noticing that disabled visitors do not have proper access. The improvements are going to cost us even more, but it is only because we did not plan things properly beforehand. A few thoughts, now, on the lifts. They go as far as level zero, there are glass doors which open to the outside, but we have no access to them. I would like to know why, as I think it is unfortunate. Regarding access by car, even though the red light is extremely unpleasant, I find it reasonable to be obliged to use the badge. On the other hand, being obliged to use it and still having to wait minutes on end to get out, I do not see the reasons for this. Being checked on entering, maybe, but as we go out? That is beyond me. I would also like to ask if it is possible to have a shuttle for our assistants and for the staff when there are meetings which last until 9 in the evening so that they do not have to take a taxi. I find it regrettable. Finally, the only thing that really bothers me is the reception as you enter this building. Compared with the reception area in Brussels or that in the former building, there is a vast difference, and there should be some thought on providing a far better reception. –  Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in introducing my proposal, I would like to remind you of the European Parliament resolution voted on 18 June 1987. In this resolution, there were four points which constituted inescapable obstacles in examining the possible accession of Turkey to the Community. Let me remind you of these four points. Firstly, the refusal of the Turkish Government to acknowledge the genocide previously committed against the Armenians; secondly, its reluctance to apply the standards of international law in its dispute with Greece; thirdly, the maintenance of Turkish occupation forces in Cyprus; fourthly, the denial of the Kurdish problem. Nothing has changed since then. Of course, the resolution we are voting on today does repeat some of these points, but we must insist absolutely on the fact that the current situation in Turkey is not acceptable to us nor in terms of the Copenhagen criteria, as indeed highlighted in the third paragraph. It is up to Turkey to change its attitude if it really wishes to join the European Union. It is up to them to change. Obviously, for us, there is no way around the question of Cyprus, and Turkey cannot conceal the Kurdish problem. These are key issues. We must remain firm in our demands if we wish to be credible and if we want Turkey to change. We know that democracy can be strong in a country, as history has recently shown, only if this country is able to recognise the rights of minorities and to respect them. .  Mr President, this report is vitally important. We are profoundly affected by the tragedy of trafficking in women which is a modern form of slavery. Our priority must be to give aid and assistance to the victims. We must fight to eliminate all the links in the chain, namely recruitment, transport, managers, middlemen and clients. By holding this debate today in the European Parliament, we are helping the victims to regain their dignity and integrity. Women and children are being traded like goods and doomed to prostitution. Trafficking in women is an important type of trade for organised crime which regards human beings as goods to be bought and sold. Misfortune, misery and the false promises of pimps are luring these young women into our countries. They are attracted by promises of employment and some even come in the hope of getting married. They have no idea of the miserable conditions in which they will be exploited, beaten, tortured and threatened. Over half of the victims are under the age of 25 and around 10% are between 15 and 18. Even if these very young girls seem willing, because they are being threatened or are in love, we cannot, at any price, allow prostitution to continue freely when you see how these women are terrorised and traded. This is why, in our opinion, we cannot use the term ‘forced prostitution’ in this report. Trafficking in women involves terrible sexual exploitation. We must help these victims to speak out and denounce their living conditions. We must welcome and help them. The pimps are very violent and victims must pay off large debts to cover the cost of their journeys and the various identity documents which they must acquire. When they resist the pressure of traffickers and pimps, they are threatened either personally or through their families. The traffickers belong to a Mafia-like criminal organisation and control several links in the network that has power over the victim. There is no way out for victims and the very nature of the environment in which they work often reduces them to despair and drug addiction. Some even go as far as committing suicide. Fighting against trafficking in human beings is essential but it is better to prevent this. It is therefore vital to establish a system of information and preventive education for both young people in the countries concerned and also clients who are often what we would call ‘family men’. We should not forget that trafficking has economic roots. Inequalities and relationships of dependency between privileged and disadvantaged countries mean that it is still always the weakest in society, particularly the women, who pay the price. We demand a coherent European policy which is why this report is so important. Trafficking in women is a crime. Trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation are unworthy of humanity. –  Mr President, I want to preface my remarks by saying that whenever there is lack of respect for children’s rights, there is violence. And the first form of violence is failure to provide education. Children from families with problems suffer and often do not have access to proper education. They will have far less chance of success in life and the conditions are all present for their children to experience the same situation. So it is time to prioritise prevention and by creating a different family framework finally make it possible to avoid pointless social and individual suffering and implement a real policy of inclusion, socialisation and education from birth. We need to invent new responses and new social attitudes. It is our duty to take an interest in these children, particularly the girls, because in some countries they are still regarded as domestic slaves. The importance of the early years and education must be recognised in order to provide young people with forms of self-expression other than rebellion due to deprivation in childhood. Human beings are born in a state of dependency. Defenceless, babies have no duties. They cannot have any. Duties follow awareness and awareness awakens with education. So in parallel with the implementation of processes to promote literacy and education in general, we must also engage in some collective thinking about the living conditions of children in the various countries, especially in urban areas, and assist in projects to look after street children in third world countries, and also in our own countries, developing pilot schemes inspired, for example, by the family pre-school proposed by . It involves reaching out to families and helping children within the family, as well as cooperation and funding to help families in difficulty, especially single-parent families and vulnerable children. In fact it is our duty to launch an extensive review of the education of children on our planet if we want a better future for all. –  Mr President, Commissioner, it is crucial for all of us that we can guarantee the safety and quality of our food. To this end, the French government has established the French food safety agency in order to make a better scientific assessment of the risks from food. It was thought to be essential that France should have an authority which will enable it to make decisions on a rigorous, scientific basis, completely independent from any outside power.  Just imagine the things that people would have said if the government had not taken the scientists’ advice when their conclusions were negative! Nevertheless, we must not allow psychosis to take hold. It is also quite unacceptable to stigmatise the British farmers who have suffered a great deal and who have made Herculean efforts. We cannot ignore their desperate plight. On the other hand, nobody will come out of a trade war unscathed, least of all the European Union. Let us not give anyone a stick with which to beat us, and let us not play into the hands of the anti-Europeans who are shamelessly exploiting the situation. Those people who do not want Europe are making shameless use of any pretext to set the public against Europe. It is so easy to use emotion, but let us not forget that it is entirely thanks to Europe that we are able to have a free market and actually trade our products.  If the European Union did not exist, today, whenever we are confronted with a problem, our borders would close and that would be that! We would not be here holding a debate today. The European Scientific Steering Committee must express its views on the relevance of the French arguments because, on Monday, the ad hoc group, which gathers together European prion disease specialists, was not able to reach a unanimous conclusion and passed the results of its study to the European Scientific Committee. This committee must take a decision, and we are all waiting to hear the opinion of the Commission, which must take responsibility. It will take responsibility, and we feel sure that it will do so in a way that will not affect high standards of protection. It was scientists’ recommendations that triggered the crisis, and scientists will be the ones to get us out of the crisis.  We now have the opportunity to make use of a test which will allow us to screen incubating animals. We will have to see if it is possible to set this up quickly, because although there is no such thing as zero risk in food safety, it is our duty to make use of all possible means to reassure our citizens that everything has been done to prevent mistakes, particularly where food is concerned. The Commission could propose complementary measures which would allow us to feel completely reassured.  I would like to add that, of course, everyone should keep their own house in order, and that includes France. All those who have led our countries into mad agricultural practises must be roundly condemned. It is quite easy to see today that the race for profits leads to appalling events and terrible paradoxes. At a time when manufacturers have had no misgivings about turning ruminants into carnivores, there is still hunger in the world.  Scientists make their recommendations and politicians make their choices, which are not always easy to make. The problem is really one of knowing to what extent we can take on a risk when one exists. This is exactly why the precautionary principle has been developed.  We will only come out of this crisis by working together, and we will come out on top, because we cannot allow our credibility to be damaged. All our consumers want to know what they are eating, and they want to be sure that they can trust us. –  Mr President, as you know, countless regions of southern Europe were severely affected this summer by unprecedented forest fires. In its resolution on the effects of the summer heatwave, adopted on 4 September, a substantial majority of this House voted in favour of an amendment tabled on the initiative of my colleague Mr Savary, with the support of thirty-one Socialist Members, of whom I was one, insisting that the European Union be granted the same financial resources as it had under the regulation on protection of the Community's forests against fire, in particular so as to fund appropriate facilities to prevent forest fires, such as firebreaks, forest tracks, access points and water supply points. Allow me therefore to express my delight that the Council, thanks I might add to the perseverance of our rapporteur, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, is now finally acknowledging, at least to some extent, that our arguments are valid. We will in fact be asked to vote tomorrow on two amendments that partially meet our concerns. We therefore note that a step has been taken in the right direction. For all that, is it sufficient? Forest fires should remain one of our political priorities, one of the symbols of the solidarity between northern and southern Europe. I very much hope, therefore, that during the Commission's evaluation exercise in December 2005 the issue of an independent, European budget line, devoted to preventing forest fires, will again be raised, and that this will be done in close cooperation with all of the stakeholders, first and foremost the foresters. We ought therefore, without prejudice of any kind, to consider whether the choice that is being made today is not to the detriment of a general safety policy, a policy that had proved to be very effective and was a visible sign of the European Union's presence in our regions. – We are facing a terrifying danger, and that is forgetting. We need to remember the horrors of history if we do not want to relive them. The genocide in Armenia is one such horror and such suffering can only be alleviated if it is recognised. Recognition of the genocide in Armenia is a recognition of the dignity of the individual. We cannot forget the deportation of the entire Armenian population to the deserts of Mesopotamia, the deportation of the Armenians of eastern Anatolia in 24 hours, the shooting of able-bodied men, the persecution of women, children and old people, who covered hundreds of kilometres on foot, without medical care and without food, divested of their belongings, raped, their throats slit on the open road, the deportation in 1915 of the Armenians of Cilicia and eastern Anatolia, the assassination of 600 Armenian prominent citizens in Constantinople, the extermination of more than a million Armenians in just over a year – in other words, almost half the Ottoman Armenians. All the accounts bear witness to the same ordeal of the civil populations of Armenia. I remember the 1987 resolution which called on Turkey to acknowledge the Armenian genocide as a precondition to its accession to the European Union. I voted today for the amendments calling for this acknowledgement in order to keep this testimony alive and to acknowledge a people’s suffering. Turkey will gain in stature among nations when it agrees to face up to its past. – Madam President, with regard to this amendment, there is a linguistic problem. The French version contains the word “délit”, whereas this is written as “crime” in the English version. As you know, Madam President, this does not have the same meaning in French. The amendment seeks to correct this. I am not the one who tabled the amendment, but it does seem to me that this is the point of it. I wanted to point this out. . Although the European Council defined the elements of a common asylum and immigration policy in Tampere in October 1999, we are obliged to note that little progress has been made and that it is essential that we take the necessary measures, in particular to put a stop to illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. We must improve the welcome we give to refugees so that potential immigrants are no longer tempted to use illegal means. In June 2002 in Seville the European Council committed itself to speeding up the implementation of the programme adopted in Tampere; we therefore call on the Council to abide by its commitments and stop obstructing the expected progress. We therefore call for a speedy and effective implementation of the conclusions of Seville and we regret that a common immigration policy has not yet been put in place. We must respond quickly because we cannot close our eyes to the dramas currently being played out in our Member States. –  Mr President, Commissioner, every time children’s rights are not respected, an act of violence is committed. Even if collective violence happens to be the most visible, daily acts of violence and problems between neighbours, which we might call small acts of violence, are very hard to bear for those who suffer them and it is in this climate that some children are born and grow up today. Violence is indicative of social problems that must be urgently addressed. Instead of corrective or repressive solutions, priority should be given to preventive solutions, creating a different kind of family setting, which would finally enable us to prevent pointless suffering on a personal and on a social scale and to practise a genuine policy of inclusion and socialisation from birth onwards.  The important thing is not to try to draw up a catalogue of rights, but to make everyone aware of the importance of early childhood, in order to avoid a future society where, because they were denied their rights when children, young people’s only means of expressing themselves is to rebel. Humans are born helpless and in a state of dependence. Babies have nothing but their rights. They can have no obligations. Obligations come only with awareness, and awareness is only stimulated by means of education and there can be no successful education without respect for the baby’s dignity and for that of the child. We must support children’s rights in third countries, but also in our own States. We must also start to collectively think about children’s living conditions in the various European countries particularly in urban areas, and initiate a form of collaboration as well as financial resources in order to help families in difficulty, particularly in the case of single-parent families or of vulnerable parents. Our goal is nothing less than to have well-balanced children. It is therefore our duty to protect and educate them. –  Mr President, personally I voted in favour of this resolution, because the essential thing is that the European Parliament should discuss the postal service and we should get away from the current ambiguous situation. If we dismantle the public service, this would be very serious, and we wish to know what are the Commission’s intentions. Saying that the client will receive a better service at a lower cost is patently inaccurate. People who live a long way from civilisation will clearly not receive a better service or else they will then have to pay a great deal and some of them will not be in a position to do so. Postal services do not provide simply a postal delivery service but also a social service. Occasionally for some people the postman is the only person they see all day. We can salute them, these postmen who, whatever the weather, sometimes walk for miles to be able to offer this service to everyone. Dismantling the postal service, the local communication service, would be a serious mistake and we would be unable to maintain the principle of the equality of all citizens. Profitability at all costs means going against fraternity and against social cohesion. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to reinforce the protection of human rights in the European Union, we must firstly concern ourselves with the most vulnerable, i.e. essentially, the poorest. The most basic violation of human rights is the denial of each individual’s right to live decently. Respect for human dignity must be our guide. We must ensure that poverty is not allowed to destroy individuals and families, that children are not taken away from their parents because of poverty and that the simple right of association is not refused to those who do not even have the right to work. The aim is to create acceptable living conditions for all. Everyone must be protected from poverty and exclusion. Everyone is entitled to education, culture and health. Everyone is entitled to decent housing and an income which allows them to live honourably. We must declare that poverty will not be tolerated. We must declare that everyone is entitled to their physical and mental integrity and that this integrity involves the right to a decent life. Could the idea of fraternity become the key concept for the 21st century? Everyone has in them the enduring need to dream and through fraternity we could meet our main expectations for the poorest in society. Fraternity gives meaning to solidarity, rejects exclusion and solitude, and ensures respect for differences. Fraternity must guarantee the rights of the poorest. Our century will be a century of progress in which the wildest utopian ideals may be realised. Fraternity is one of these ideals and together, ladies and gentlemen, we can achieve it. .  The traffic in human organs has increased enormously in recent years. Trafficking in human beings is organised in order to remove organs from living donors. Patients from the European Union buy organs from third-country donors, thereby profiting from their helplessness in the face of extreme poverty. Against this background, we must welcome the proposal for a framework decision. The donation of organs by living persons is a genuine source of abuse and often represents the exploitation of poverty. The use of living donors must only ever be considered as a last resort, when transplants from dead people are impossible. I therefore tabled an amendment to the effect that any removal of organs from persons that are not closely related, as defined by the law, should be punished. When there is no such relationship, these donations could take place only under conditions laid down by the law and once an appropriate independent body has given its authorisation. Organ donation by living donors must be extremely closely supervised and monitored in order to protect the vulnerable and to prevent the exploitation of human beings in order to obtain their organs, which is an unacceptable practice. – We are paying our respects today to the UNHCR and to all humanitarian workers. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other humanitarian organisations work together, helping refugees to start a new life in a new country or, where possible, to return home. The UNHCR is currently helping 5 million displaced persons and some 11.5 million refugees. The UNHCR has always fought for the protection and welfare of refugees and displaced persons. It has taken part in specific operations when asked to do so by the Secretary-General or another authority of the United Nations, in agreement with the countries concerned. In the former Yugoslavia and Timor, the UNHCR has decided to protect all displaced persons and provide humanitarian aid for them, irrespective of whether or not they are refugees. It should therefore have access to civil victims and its teams on the ground should be able to work in complete safety and with all the resources needed to carry out their mission. On the fiftieth anniversary on Thursday, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees stated that the long life of the UNHCR gave little cause for celebration and that it was more important to pay homage to the millions of refugees, to their courage and to their contribution to the entire world, stressing that refugees were entitled to everyone's respect. We should view the speech made by Mrs Sadako Ogata, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, as a challenge; basically what she said was that the long life of the UNHCR reflected the international community's inability to prevent prejudice, persecution, poverty and all the other reasons which result in conflict and movements of populations. –  Mr President, I should first, of course, like to congratulate Mrs Klamt on her report. It is not only excellent in quality but also extremely useful. Everyone agrees on the idea that children are the future of the world but, at the same time, they represent one of the most vulnerable groups in the population of this planet. Indeed, the United Nations Convention of 20 November 1989 granted them specific rights and all our actions should take their inspiration from recognition of these rights. We must tackle a dreadful scourge, the sexual exploitation of children. There are ‘clients’, if one can use the word in such a horrifying situation, who buy children in order to indulge their sexual fantasies. These clients, from Europe, the United States or Japan are the hard core of child abusers. This horrendous phenomenon occurs principally in third countries where there is great poverty. The chief causes are poverty and social inequality, the collapse of family and community protection, discrimination against girls and ignorance. All these causes combine to form a melting pot where lives are shattered by the greed of some parties and the deviance of others. We might remember the old Japanese proverb which says, ‘The traveller knows no shame’. Some people have no qualms about doing in another country what they would not do at home. It is a compound of anonymity and impunity coupled with a scorn one might describe as racist, which permits some individuals to treat a child as an object to be used, defiled and rejected. Most child prostitutes are part of the general prostitution market run by Mafias of procurers. It is very hard to locate these children and to extract them from a life of prostitution. Unfortunately, some individuals use the Internet to provide details of their base acts and addresses where children can be procured. We cannot remain indifferent to this scourge which represents an appalling infringement of children’s rights and human rights, and we must protect these children by attacking the origins of the problem and by pursuing the paedophiles. The origins of the problem can be attacked by tackling poverty and ignorance. There must be criminal penalties for child abusers. The first chapter of the European Charter on the Rights of the Child states that ‘child’ refers to any person under the age of 18. I suggest that we adopt this age limit and say that all minors must absolutely be protected. It is our duty to this generation which represents our future, a generation which expects us to protect and respect it. By adopting today a new instrument of exchange and cooperation in the field of higher education, we are sending out a positive signal to students and teachers in third countries in the rest of the world that we are outward-looking and welcoming. This Erasmus Mundus programme offers a new vision of higher education in Europe, enabling foreign students to make a ‘tour of Europe’ in two or three different universities, including those entered by competitive examination. Thanks to the title, ‘Erasmus Mundus Masters Course’, it will be possible for the training proposed by the European Union easily to be recognised in all countries. Students will therefore be guaranteed a warm welcome and high-quality training. We must make our higher education attractive. The promotion of linguistic ability, before and during the periods spent here by students and academics from third countries, must be strongly encouraged. We sincerely hope that the Council will put its weight behind the budget of EUR 230 million proposed for this programme, a budget that should be equal to the ambitions of the latter. Indeed, almost 4 000 students from third countries and almost a thousand academics should benefit from this programme between now and 2008. In my report on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, I drew attention to the Bologna Declaration of June 1999, to the effect that ‘[t]he vitality and efficiency of any civilisation can be measured by the appeal that its culture has for other countries’. Madam President, at a time when migration flow management and the fight against illegal immigration are becoming ever more complex, it is very difficult for us to accept this Spanish initiative in either substance or form. As regards the form, to accept this initiative would be to condone the Council’s working method, which consists in constantly amending texts proposed to Parliament. I applaud the work of the rapporteur and his admirable consistency. He was in fact given new versions when he had already drafted his report, so that the earlier text became null and void. This is quite unacceptable. Quite apart from the energy and time that have been wasted, such an attitude betrays a lack of coordination within the Council and contempt for Parliament and the representatives of the people of Europe, which gives us cause for dismay. One may then question the result obtained. Is it really effective? Reading the last official text of the Spanish initiative, one comes across the words ‘obligation’ and ‘penalty’ in practically every paragraph. The objective is clearly defined; it involves the fight against illegal immigration. The penalties should, therefore, essentially concern smugglers of clandestine migrants. But no! Penalties and obligations apply to the airlines and we cannot accept that the states should abandon their responsibilities, handing them over to private companies in this way and then penalising them if the work is not done properly. In fact, obliging private companies to collect data with a view to controlling illegal immigration means requiring the carriers to take over the obligations of the states. The objective of reducing illegal immigration is a legitimate one, but how can the proposed text be effective? There has been no demonstration of its actual operational usefulness, and the fact that only the air carriers are concerned has already weakened its objective. This text, if accepted as it stands, would completely disrupt the work of the airlines, since the transmission of data, which is obligatory for these companies, represents a considerable burden in terms of costs. In some countries, passports are not machine-readable; in other countries, the machines are not yet available: in order to rectify these failings, Member States do not provide for any system of compensation. Also, the system of penalties would be terribly onerous and would not take account of the efforts made by the penalised companies with a view to meeting these obligations. In conclusion, then, illegal immigration must of course be combated, but there are, in my view, many other ways. We therefore, in fact, reject this initiative and we should like the Commission to make us a proposal in the future, a coherent proposal, and one that respects competences and the public’s rights and duties. We trust that the Commission will be able to do this. .  Mr President, the conclusions of the Thessaloniki European Council of 19 and 20 June expressed the need to speed up work on adopting, before the end of 2003, a legal instrument intended officially to create a network of ‘Immigration’ liaison officers (ILOs). The idea is that all these ‘Immigration’ liaison officers of the Member States, located in the same foreign country, should work effectively together, within networks, in order to contribute to the gradual establishment of the coordinated and integrated management of our external borders. The regulation proposed by Greece is needed to provide a framework for formalising and strengthening the informal cooperation that already exists between liaison officers. The ideal situation would be to have Community ‘Immigration’ liaison officers with their own duties, who are trained and paid by the Union, but unfortunately neither the jurisdiction nor the budget for this yet exists and some States remain unconvinced. Liaison officers symbolise the external representation of the Member States, and some people do not look favourably on any loss of their national prerogative. In the meantime, this new proposal for a regulation is, to my mind, a step towards achieving greater transparency. There are essentially three types of task that would be given to the liaison officers: they would help to prevent illegal immigration and to combat the traffickers, they would help to return illegal immigrants and would contribute to the management of legal immigration. This last point is still rather vague, however, since the form that this management might take is not set out in any of the regulation’s articles and yet is, I believe, a crucial matter. This is, therefore, a shortcoming that needs to be remedied and, in fact, contrary to what some would have us believe, foreigners are not dangerous; they are in danger themselves. People who leave their country, their friends and family, to immigrate to the European Union do so for significant reasons that are often matters of life or death. Each one of us would probably, in the same economic, social, psychological and emotional conditions, do the same. We must, therefore, disseminate information on the possibilities of legal immigration in the countries concerned. To achieve this, I believe we must all be clear about our immigration policy, which is not currently the case. We must also warn people about the risk that they face of falling into the hands of unscrupulous smugglers or of finding themselves involved with a slave-trading network. In order, however, for these measures to be truly effective, I call on the Member States to ensure that they are not themselves the cause of some illegal activity. To this end they should, as I see it, act on two fronts: firstly, on the status of temporary workers. Studies of the black labour market in European farming indeed show that undeclared overtime and the use of illegal methods of recruiting for the farming labour force, which sometimes border on slavery, are increasing in the Member States. Often, the major distribution chains put pressure on producers, who then use unemployed and illegal workers and it is unthinkable that we should accept contracts that place workers beyond the law. I wish to emphasise that, very often, making legislation tougher reduces the number of legal workers and increases the number of illegal workers, whom it in no way prevents getting through. Furthermore, it is crucial that we avoid making a link between immigration and organised crime. Illegal immigrants are not criminals, but human beings who have not been fortunate enough to be born in the right place. A clearer distinction should therefore be made between the roles of liaison officers, ‘Immigration’ liaison officers, airport liaison officers, documentary advisers, technical advisers and consular services, all of which deal with immigration issues, and it would also appear appropriate to delineate the area of activity of liaison officers and precisely define their tasks. There should also be some harmonisation, even if only partial, of the training they should receive. Some ILOs interviewed when the Danish Presidency report was being drafted see this as a  for the creation of a genuine network. This training could normally be given in the form of seminars and workshops, which would have the undeniable advantage of fostering personal contact – the very essence of a network. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that in no case must immigration be seen as a threat. In no case must illegal immigrants be seen as criminals. They are victims, because they have had the misfortune to be born in a beleaguered country. They are victims because they are desperate and are looking for compassion. If the European Union is incapable of understanding that, then we can only despair of progress and of the civilised world. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by way of introduction to my speech, I would like to thank most sincerely all the shadow rapporteurs from all the groups. Thanks to the work we have carried out together, we can send a strong signal in this highly sensitive field. I would also thank the Commission for its support, which was particularly welcome. It is vital that our countries offer an appropriate welcome to foreign students, just as it is vital to have a common policy on this welcome. In this way we can contribute in a positive manner to the training of future executives in third countries and increase cooperation with these countries in terms of education in order to meet the challenge of the internationalisation of teaching. This proposal for a directive would make it possible to achieve significant progress that we can all support. We would point out that a legal basis has at last been provided for volunteers. We would also point out that this instrument might enable us to catch up with the United States, where residential study programmes are broadly encouraged and facilitated. We are entering into a strategy that aims to increase cooperation with third countries in terms of teaching as set out, for example, in the  programme. The votes in committee allowed a few clarifications to be made and I shall now cite some of these. We would call for the introduction into the directive of researchers, who are no longer students but do not carry out paid work. We would also emphasise that we wanted to contribute to the fight against brain drain from South to North. Receiving third-country nationals for study purposes must not lead to an increase in brain drain from these countries. We would similarly like to see an improvement in procedural guarantees and we therefore propose reducing the deadline for notifying applicants of decisions on applications for admission or renewal from 90 days to 60 days. We also propose greater flexibility concerning the student residence permit. Where the study programme is shorter than one year but longer than nine months, like many programmes, it would be a shame not to grant a one-year residence permit to enable students to work during the holidays preceding or following the study programme in order to earn some of the money required for their stay, or to improve their knowledge of their host country for a few weeks. The proposal for a directive grants students and unpaid researchers the possibility of working for a maximum of 10 to 20 hours per week. This right is essential in order to allow third-country nationals to boost their income in order to live decently. Furthermore, with regard to unpaid researchers, I believe it is very important for trade union representatives to be informed of their specific situation in order to be able to monitor compliance with the provisions of the directive. Withholding the right to work in the first year of residence or withdrawing the right to work if students do not make sufficient progress in their studies is unjustifiable and would tend to encourage illegal employment and exploitation of these nationals. Where there is insufficient progress in studies, attested to by the teaching establishment, the Member State could possibly have the option of reducing the number of working hours so that the student could devote more time to their studies. That is why I believe the amendment tabled to that effect to be satisfactory. We have the concerns of some Member States about the possible effects of the right to mobility and the right to work granted to students. I understand these concerns, but the proposal for a directive itself contains responses to this, in particular with regard to the mobility of students, which is very clearly defined, with specific conditions, in Article 7. Thus, the proposed directive does not apply to the mobility of students wishing to exchange student status for immigrant worker status. This status, granted by a working residence permit, is the subject of the Terrón i Cusí report that we adopted in plenary last February. A change in status from student to immigrant worker is of course possible, but is outside the scope of the directive in question. We would point out that the Commission is simultaneously for an open policy with regard to the admission of students from third countries, in accordance with the wishes of the Member States, and for a policy of firmness with regard to persons or networks which voluntarily abuse the system. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should seize the opportunity to send a strong message to the Council calling for it swiftly to reach an agreement on this important matter in order to ensure a welcome that is worthy of our Member States. In the next series of National Action Plans for social inclusion, in 2003, it is essential to recommend that the Member States give high priority to those living in persistent poverty. The report describes the current situation and, I regret to remind you, we have 60 million poor people in the European Union, and this is unacceptable. At the Lisbon Summit, the fifteen Member States undertook to eradicate poverty by 2010. The Treaty of Nice confirmed this commitment. This report acts as a springboard to reinforce the policies and programmes of the European Union and confirms that the fight against poverty is still a major issue. We have succeeded in adopting the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Now we need to bring it to life. Article 1 of the Charter, which emphasises the dignity of every human being, is key. The dignity of all those living in poverty is injured and, to us, that is unacceptable. We must establish a proactive policy for schooling, for public services, for housing and for employment. Most importantly, we must anticipate the risks of exclusion and do something to protect the most vulnerable groups: the structural changes within our Union could create further risks of discrimination and spark off a fresh wave of racism and xenophobia. –  Mr President, Commissioner, we are about to give an opinion on an extremely important text, which deals with the question of combating the growth of networks of smugglers who exploit men, women and children in the form of trafficking in human beings. The aim is therefore to issue a short-term residence permit to the victims of these networks who cooperate with the courts or the police. A measure of this kind has been in force in Belgium, the Netherlands and in Italy and has had a very positive effect. The report by Mrs Sörensen, whom I would like to thank in particular, makes reference to the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. Non-governmental organisations must play a greater role in assisting the victims of trafficking in human beings and we have strengthened the rights of victims by enabling them to submit an asylum application. It would be unfair to refuse them this right due to the fact that they often only have false identity papers. Let us note that it is essential that the Member States be required to protect the anonymity of victims of trafficking by only organising trials held in camera. We are therefore on the verge of making great progress in Europe in combating trafficking in human beings. I would, however, draw your attention to Amendments Nos 7 and 27 which refuse the holders of a residence permit the right of access to the labour market, vocational training and education. This right was laid down in Article 12 of the Commission’s proposal. Deleting this provision would completely distort the directive. Victims who have no way out of their situation would have great difficulty in cooperating with the police authorities and would easily fall back into the hands of mafia-like networks. This initiative will make victims stronger and will help them to cut ties with their illegal past as soon as they have severed relations with the criminal network. Let us reiterate that the Member States are still free to make the issue of permits conditional upon victims’ participation in a rehabilitation programme aimed to encourage their integration in the host country or their return to the country of origin. We owe aid and assistance to the victims. This is how to ensure they remain law-abiding men and women. . –  It has been noted that the situation of young farmers is a serious problem in the European Union and they do not have any real prospects despite the support provided by the Union and the Member States. This is why I consider this report to be so important and why I am delighted that we have voted in favour of it. The economic situation is unfavourable and sometimes extremely serious, particularly for young people. There is a real lack of prospects for young farmers, as well as a significant decrease in the numbers of farmers in general, with an increase in the age of those remaining. What can the European Union do? The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, having been asked to give its opinion on this subject, did not wish to focus on aspects which fell within the remits of other committees. We therefore chose to highlight the issues associated with education, training and information policies and the social and cultural life of young farmers. We note that young farmers experience problems resulting from education and training that is often poorly suited to their needs. Even Agenda 2000 neglects these fundamentally important aspects. The European Union must encourage, through its Socrates and Leonardo Programmes, measures to strengthen education and training facilities for young farmers in order to raise their skills to the required level. IT training must be set up. Internet access must become a reality, and young farmers must be able to become acquainted with integrated production and marketing management systems so as to manage their holdings effectively. Depopulation may be combated, in particular by maintaining public services in rural areas (schools, post offices, transport services), and social facilities may be maintained by pooling the resources of several communes, for example, or by resorting to the use of mobile services. If the right conditions for revitalising farming are fulfilled, then young urban dwellers enthusiastic about nature and keen to improve their quality of life will be able to settle in the country and rural youth will no longer abandon the farms passed on to them by their parents. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone acknowledges that sport is a means of personal development and a special opportunity to meet other people. But does everyone see and recognise the different purposes of participation in sport? For some, it may be a question of keeping fit. For others, it may be part of their personal education process, while for others it is the presentation of a spectacle or a quest for victory at all costs. We all know that sport is a tremendous instrument of national cohesion and of social integration. However, we are also aware that sport can sometimes be accompanied by horrific acts of violence, abominable racist outbursts and unacceptable strident nationalism. And for all of these reasons, we cannot accept the idea that sport should be considered in its economic dimension alone. Voluntary organisations and individual volunteers are every bit a part of the sporting world, and it is surely thanks to them that sport is alive in our countries and that mass sport will be able to survive in future. Not every human act can be priced with a pocket calculator. The effect of that approach on human relations is too dangerous for us to remain silent. Where there is no money to be won and no obligation to show a profit, there may quite simply be the desire to share these special opportunities, and sport undoubtedly has its place – indeed its foremost place – in such encounters. This quest for human bonds in an increasingly commercial society contains the seeds of resistance to the commercialisation of the world and of human relations. We cannot accept this excessive striving for profits to the detriment of human development. The protection of young sportspeople is a priority of the French Presidency. It is our priority, and we must demand the prohibition of commercial transactions relating to these young people. We must also, of course, provide for the introduction of sport into the Treaty – if not in the short term, then at least in the medium term. It is certainly a challenge, but we must accept it for the sake of coming generations. –  Madam President, I would just like to address you on behalf of the Members of Parliament who stay behind on Friday morning. We have the impression that we are being left very much to our own devices in this building. Let me give you just one example. On the Friday of the last part-session, I wanted to access my mail. I tried, but it was impossible. I attempted to contact an official. Honestly, I did everything I could, but there was no one who could help me. I discussed this with other Members who were also still here with me on Friday morning, and the general opinion was that we felt that we had been utterly deserted. Mr President, France is, as everyone knows, a secular state. Secularism is an essential value for French people and it is an intrinsic part of our culture. The Islamic headscarf is a sign of oppression of women, a sign of male superiority. This is unacceptable for French people, but also for every man and woman that advocates humanism. In this House we campaign for equality between men and women. The issue of the Islamic headscarf is a complex one and we hope that some of our fellow Members will not compound this complexity with their certitudes. If they possess the truth, then good for them. As for us, we are searching for the truth, and we will make every effort to promote the secularism that is the only hope for peace between all religions. –  Mr President, first of all, I think we should congratulate Mrs Gillig on this report. European legislation is often poorly perceived by the public and we therefore demand that greater account be taken of people’s interests, particularly to improve social governance and working conditions in the Member States, but also in third countries. We believe it is rather dangerous to say that the greatest concern is that the recognition of a link between trade and social issues could be abused for protectionist purposes or open the door for increased recourse to trade sanctions. Some people believe that social issues are still abusive. Where are they abusive? When are they abusive? We can reaffirm that people use work in order to improve their living conditions and not the other way round. Unfortunately, changes often bring about a deterioration of workers’ living conditions. In the Programme of Action, governments committed themselves to ‘safeguarding and promoting respect for basic workers’ rights, including the prohibition of forced labour and child labour, freedom of association, freedom to organise and bargain collectively’. This is an important point. Slavery is a crime; sexual exploitation is a crime. It is not work. And I wanted us to state this even more clearly. Promoting core labour standards means preventing third countries from being exploited by rich countries. This is, in my view, how we must understand it. At the Nice European Council, the European Union endorsed a social agenda which promotes the concept of quality – in employment, in industrial relations, and in working conditions – as the driving force for a thriving and inclusive economy, with more and better jobs. We are today reaffirming, Mr President, Commissioner, that the universal application of fundamental rights is, obviously, a prerequisite for making progress. –  Mr President, building Europe means first and foremost being aware of its diversity and its differences. In studying the educational systems of the Member States of the European Union we should draw on a profound knowledge of the practices and acquired rights in our various countries, because each of our countries has its own educational reality. Any change to the educational system calls into question the ideology of the society and its economic development. Quality in education is a challenge for our society, but education must not become a focus for social operators who want to impose their personal aims upon it. If an in-depth reform of the educational system is needed, it must involve all the partners in the system and, above all, it must not be rigid. It must be capable of evolving in step with society because educational systems suffer when they are not rooted in life. But for all that, we must not forget that the all-round development of the human being is an essential goal of education. We must not seek to respond at any price to a constantly developing market. On the contrary, we must let young people acquire the tools of knowledge which allow them to face their future. Today, the concern is certainly not to wait for pupils to fail, at the end of their schooling, before showing some imagination. They need to be offered appropriate teaching. No child is devoid of talent. Every system creates its own type of failures. The criteria for identifying failure are essentially subjective. Success is judged according to pre-established standards. What are those standards? How have they been established? Depending on the circumstances, politicians may even find it in their interests to exaggerate or minimise things that are going wrong, especially as the problems of education occupy a growing place in the political debate and the media. Any pupil in difficulties is a young person whose future is compromised. Any child who is failing is expressing his unease in the educational institution, but also in society. A young person who is not recognised as an individual with his own experiences and his own knowledge is a rejected human being. In rejection he will give vent to his despair; he will give vent to his hatred. The fight against failure at school, in other words, against failure in society, is and must be a major concern for anyone with political responsibility. So it is time to regard the young person as a developing being, wishing to train himself rather than being trained. Perhaps we should change the way we approach knowledge and review the operation of our educational systems, but we must be careful not to seek uniformity because the multiplicity of cultures is a source of personal enrichment and a condition for successful human development. There is no miracle cure, but there are battles to be fought. And that means that all those who believe it must combine forces to do so. Madam President, what have we been able to observe since 1963? Progress, of course, but at the present time it is easier to list the points of divergence than the advances that have been made. The constitution, adopted under a military regime, is not a basis on which the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms can be guaranteed. Another matter that needs to be raised is the recognition of the genocide perpetrated against the Armenian population. Let us not forget that the European Parliament affirmed this in a resolution adopted on 18 June 1987 and has subsequently repeated it on several occasions. Turkey continues to deny the atrocities committed by the authorities of that time, and the European Parliament has already voiced its concern about the circulars from the Turkish Ministry of National Education enjoining primary and secondary schools to take part in a revisionist campaign to deny the oppression of minorities in the course of Turkish history, especially with regard to the Armenian community. It is hard to see how a country that will not face up to its history and its errors can join the European Union. We therefore expect Turkey to exercise its memory, and we shall reiterate this at every opportunity. Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Pirker that this is a good report, even if, personally, I would have liked to go further. The aim of managing migratory flows is in fact rooted in the illusion of strict regulation, something which has proved impossible in the last several years. Few countries have admitted to the limitations, let alone the failure, of the programmes they intended putting in place. Those programmes are no match for the problems posed by the complexity and diversity of the flows, which encompass traditional movements of labour, people fleeing poverty and asylum seekers. National traditions, cultural peculiarities, massive or residual xenophobia and a greater or lesser openness to the claims of minorities explain the differences between the Member States’ immigration policies. Refugee status is particularly attractive when immigration or staying in a country legally has become virtually impossible, and it is in fact the only door that stands ajar for entry to many of our countries. The many attempts to take advantage of it by persons not strictly covered by the Geneva Convention but who fall into the much wider category of economic migrants, attempts which are sometimes exploited by organised crime, have cast suspicion on all applicants and provided a pretext for considerable restrictions on the right to asylum, which is appalling. Having on our territory people with no rights, with absolutely no security, in fear of being reported to the authorities, reduced to feeding the profitable illegal labour market or resorting to petty crime, but who nevertheless prefer that situation to the risk of being returned to their countries of origin, in fact raises inevitable social, moral and legal questions. Undoubtedly, this problem needs to be tackled as one affecting all Europeans. It is also clear that we cannot arrive at a rational policy by being guided by narrow national interests alone. With rising populism symptomatic of xenophobia, many fear seeing the common treatment of the immigration issue take on a dangerously repressive hue, although we know full well that such a policy is no answer to the problems but that, quite the contrary, it risks enflaming them. I want to conclude by saying that stepping up the fight against terrorism must not be allowed to affect the integrity of our immigration and asylum policies and in particular the substantial development of our national integration policies. Immigration is a reality and we will always have to deal with flows of migrants into Europe seeking work or fleeing persecution. Illegal immigration will not be eliminated simply by opening channels for legal immigration, that is true, but legal immigration may help to give a positive direction to our society’s development. Migration is a phenomenon of the contemporary world. We cannot evade our responsibilities as rich nations. Mr President, I would like to begin by deploring the fact that profit, competitiveness and the monopolising of resources all too often make people deaf and blind. The human and environmental costs of the economic warfare imposed on all the nations are devastating. It is true that the sea is a space without borders, governed by the principle of freedom of shipping, but our role is to make carriers aware of their responsibility and therefore to make them answer for their deeds. That is why it is important to ensure, with this framework decision, that appropriate sanctions, criminal sanctions in particular, are applied to the persons responsible for illegal discharges of hydrocarbons and noxious liquid substances. The Member States really must adopt strict common provisions and a robust system of criminal sanctions. Today, let us be clear. The Member States are often not equal to their duties and responsibilities in this area. True, the European Union has already considerably strengthened its legislation on maritime safety, but most Member States have applied the first 1995 directive on the control of shipping using Community ports very poorly. Then, following the  disaster, in December 1999 the European Union adopted five major texts on maritime safety. The two legislative packages were adopted in an exceptionally short space of time, but on 19 November 2002, the day the  was wrecked, only one Member State – Denmark – had transposed one of those five texts into its national law. At the December 2002 Copenhagen European Council, the European Union expressed its determination to adopt every measure necessary to prevent a recurrence of such a disaster. The framework decision that we are going to adopt tomorrow complements the 2003 directive on pollution by ships, which was a first important step. The European Parliament’s Temporary Committee on the  disaster was finally formed last December, after 10 months of obstruction. That committee will have to assess the responsibilities of the maritime authorities and governments of the Member States in the management of maritime disasters. We must find a solution that will ensure that the Member States comply with the measures adopted by the European Union in the field of maritime safety and agree to receive vessels in distress in harbours of refuge. I repeat, we must enforce every liability, be it private or public, involved in these environmental crimes. .–  The integration of immigrants, be they economic migrants or refugees in search of asylum, is a major challenge for our societies. Indeed, the success of our immigration policies will depend on the success of our integration policies. We must frame a contract of values between our societies and the ethnic communities that they take in. This is an issue that affects all of us. We must welcome immigrants and respect the diversity of their cultures, religions and traditions. At the same time, immigrants themselves must accept our traditional values as set out in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights: respect for democracy, freedom, human rights, equality between men and women, and religious freedom. These values must under no circumstances be called into question. The watchword is ‘diversity in unity’. In the interest of strengthening integration policies, discussion should take place regarding the concept of civic citizenship that could be developed for nationals from third countries. This would include a set of rights and responsibilities, such as equality of social, economic and political treatment, in areas such as working conditions and voting rights in local and European elections. .–  Lifelong learning, work and the elderly are all highly important subjects that are highlighted in this report, and employment strategies are vital. We want more jobs, but also better-adapted jobs. The fight against poverty is key. We cannot accept that families should still be living below the poverty line today. It is a matter of solidarity. The objectives we set must be accessible. We need to invest in high-quality services so that women can reconcile employment with family obligations. We need a more effective partnership between the Member States. In order to foster the participation of women in social life and the labour market, we need to define a series of specific actions aiming to provide services that correspond to childcare needs, but which also enable us to provide assistance for families with other dependents. It is essential to invest in public services in order to respond to the needs of families and society as a whole and it is vital for all the actors concerned to be involved in implementing employment strategy. Furthermore, the existence of high-quality public services requires appropriate taxation. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of Iraq seems to have divided the world into two opposing camps. However, the peace demonstrators have stood up in the whole of Europe and throughout the world in order to protest against the strongest military power in the world. Without the backing of the UN Security Council, the United States has attacked Iraq, but we now know that their battle plans had been ready for a long time. We believed that a peaceful solution was possible in Iraq, thanks to the intervention of the inspectors, but the decision had already been taken. All wars in the Middle East have always ended in disaster. Why, then, are we incapable of learning the lessons of history? Our construction of Europe is based on right, rather than might. Yes, but we cannot deny that the European Union is experiencing a real crisis. What is this right that we are talking about? How can we forget Article 11 of the Maastricht Treaty, which compels all Member States to define and implement a common security policy in line with the United Nations Charter? The UN Charter has been flouted. Article 2 of that Charter asks all States to refrain from threatening the territorial or political integrity of any other State or to use force against that integrity. What has happened to our compliance with that article? Does this mean that there is no longer any law, any treaty, or any charter which is able to resist the law of the strongest power? That is a frightening thought. It would be a defeat for democracy, and we do not accept it. This war is a disaster from the moral viewpoint. All the great principles of our civilisation cannot be trampled underfoot in this way. What price will we have to pay for this inability to learn lessons from the past and for the fact that we have delayed too long in building a political Europe that would be capable of facing up to the United States? It is time for us to react if we want a strong and independent Europe. It is time for us to put in place a common defence policy, and it will be necessary for us to provide ourselves with the resources to do so. We need to move, to make the Convention a success and to make our future together a success too. .Although access to water was recently declared a human right, the number of people in the world without drinking water today stands at 1.7 million, a figure whose increase has been uninterrupted in recent years. We need to recognise the causes of the lack of drinking water and fight them: whether it be high productivity and intensive farming, economies directed towards growing crops for export, which often compromise the development of the local economy or the liberalisation of public services in the water sector, a condition often imposed by the World Bank or the IMF on countries in the South to benefit from loans. The costs of water services have also become inaccessible for the poorest people. To remedy these discrepancies, we want new patterns of production and consumption to be implemented, in the North as in the South, based on long-term water management. We want to advance environmental farming and new irrigation systems. In light of the tragedy that people have gone through and the totally insufficient responses given to date, the establishment of a European Water Fund for the ACP countries is a good initiative. Access to drinking water and purification services needs to be determined by national authorities with the involvement, through associations and civil society movements, of those people affected. – Madam President, I would simply like to add to what Mrs Gröner has said. We have indeed learned that during the plenary sessions in Brussels and Strasbourg – Strasbourg is not the only place this happens – there was a massive influx of prostitutes, and in particular young women from Eastern Europe. You will be aware that terrible things happen to these women, that they are tortured and their families threatened. It is not only in Strasbourg that this happens. I believe that we should all sit down and discuss this, that this Parliament should denounce this state of affairs and above all that it should play a full part in eradicating such modern-day slavery. –  Mr President, at the Tampere Summit, the European Council declared that the legal status of third-country nationals should be approximated to that of Member State nationals so that they have a uniform set of rights as close as possible to those enjoyed by EU citizens. The Commission’s proposal set out, in a very clear and balanced fashion, the conditions that must be fulfilled in order to acquire long-term resident status. This is a balanced proposal. The criteria are, amongst others, the length of legal residence and adequate resources. Furthermore, the individual must not constitute a threat to public order or domestic security. I must say, however, that some amendments cause me great concern as they run counter to the Tampere objectives. Article 7 of the Commission’s proposal on the threat to public order is clear and I think it is worrying and counter-productive to draw a parallel between immigration and terrorism. On the other hand, we share the view that the level of language knowledge assists in an individual’s integration but it should not, under any circumstances, be considered a condition for obtaining resident status. Why is this? Well, quite simply because it is not an objective and precise criterion. There is no cause and effect link between a specific level of language knowledge – what level do we mean? – and integration itself. I myself know people who have been living in my country for ten years, and everyone says that they are perfectly integrated, despite the fact that they still have some difficulties with French. Lastly, I think it is unfair to introduce the requirement for suitable housing as an additional condition to avoid granting status to third-country nationals legally residing in the European Union. Many nationals do not have suitable housing, unfortunately, and they are not second class citizens because of this. Everyone would like to have suitable housing. It is fundamental that we create a welcoming society and acknowledge that integration is a two-way process requiring adaptation by the immigrant as well as the host society. –  Commissioner, Mr President, the main aim of the report that we are discussing this evening is to provide asylum seekers with a minimum level of protection in all the Member States and to reduce the differences in legislation and the practices of the Member States in this area. This is essential. Some Members are criticising efforts to bring into line the status of refugee and that of beneficiary of subsidiary protection. Subsidiary protection exists, however, to bridge the gaps found in some interpretations of the Geneva Convention, under which a refugee is defined as a person persecuted by a government. Yet we know that some refugees who are not, strictly speaking, persecuted by their government, are, in fact, in real danger and in genuine need of our help. The needs of all those requiring international protection are, by and large, the same. This is precisely the area the committee worked on to have amended in the proposal for a directive and I believe this has been done in a very constructive manner. As an improvement, it is proposed that refugees and beneficiaries of subsidiary protection enjoy the same rights with regard to the granting and the length of the residence permit, access to employment, possibilities of vocational training and access to integration facilities. It is undeniable that access to employment encourages people to acquire greater autonomy and enables those concerned to support themselves and thus, to live without the assistance provided by the host country. It is obvious that minors benefiting from international protection must have full access to the state education system; this is an obvious fact recognised in several international conventions. We believe that it is dangerous to fail to protect minors, to fail to educate them, to fail to give them the minimum they need to be able to live together. We welcome the new definition of the term family members, which is both wider and more accurate, and we stress the possibility of family reunion that is introduced in the proposal. Similarly, we welcome the fact that the rejection of refugee status, and its withdrawal, is more clearly defined. We are pleased to note that the persons who are persecuted for their sexual orientation, for their state of health, who suffer corporal punishment or genital mutilation are protected. I now urge the majority of forward-thinking, humanist Members, who are often a credit to Parliament, to reject the amendments which could completely change the nature of this report and to send a clear signal to the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, by voting in favour of the Lambert Report tomorrow, we shall be responding to an expectation of our peoples. Whoever votes against this text tomorrow can no longer claim to truly condemn the current reception conditions which are not worthy of humanity, which are not worthy of the European Union. Mr President, I was surprised to hear a few minutes ago that Guantanamo Bay was a centre for English language teaching. That is quite extraordinary because the holding of the prisoners in Guantanamo Bay runs contrary to human rights. The prisoners have no access to an independent lawyer, and we do not know who exactly is being held or what precise charges are being brought against them. Under such conditions, there is reason to be concerned about the detainees’ mental health. Without the prior assistance of an independent lawyer, we can say that there is an obvious risk of negotiation to reach an agreement and doing so in order to get the charges reduced. If that is the case, detainees will be able to choose to plead guilty, even if they are not, in order to escape the death penalty. It is clear that President Bush and the US leadership want show trials with confessions because it is presidential election year. The European Parliament’s position must therefore be intransigent against terrorism, but also intransigent on respect for international law. It is unacceptable to sentence someone before a verdict has been reached. That is what is happening here, sometimes even in this Chamber. We must all therefore denounce this legal black hole in which the detainees find themselves. We can all remember the horror of what happened, but we do not want terrorism to win and we must demand fair treatment for all and show that we defend values that respect the law. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the best means we all have of combating barbarity. .One of the main tasks of the European Union is to ensure access for all to fundamental rights. Access to the health system is a right recognised for all citizens of the Union by Article 35 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Destitution, poverty and social exclusion are violations of dignity and the European Union prides itself on doing everything in its power to establish this right to health protection wherever disease is due to poverty. A strong correlation has been established between poverty and the spread of disease. The regulation is a very good tool as with it we will be able to implement a programme of effective measures, in particular by enabling easier access to drugs by making them more affordable. It is essential that the European Union should endeavour to prevent illnesses caused by poverty. These prevention efforts must go hand in hand with treatment and people who are infected need to be supported. It is important to allocate more resources, and the Commission needs to have sufficient trained staff. We also hope to step up research into these diseases in order to find treatments and vaccinations. We should remember that the European Parliament asked in October 2001 for 10% of the Community development cooperation budget to be allocated to health. .I voted in favour of the treaty on the accession of the 10 new countries to the European Union. I thought carefully before doing so, because it means committing the Union to a long and difficult process. It should be borne in mind, however, that creating the Union has always been a difficult process. We must expect it to be long too. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe wishing to accede to our Union have made tremendous efforts in order to join. They modernised their economies quickly and reformed their social systems. Their political systems became democratic. All this was achieved in a few short years. They are to be commended on their courage and the sacrifices they made. The peoples of Central and Eastern Europe have a very unsettled past. Its memories are still fresh in their minds. We cannot reject these people simply because we do not want to slow down our kind of Europe. We have no right to do so. The unification of Europe is a historical challenge. We do not have the right to miss this opportunity. We shall pay a heavy price if we do. The enlargement process must go hand in hand with a deepening of the institutions. We are well aware that deepening would not be taking place if enlargement were not on the horizon. All those who earnestly hope for the success of enlargement will have understood that it is essential to vote for assent today. We will then be able to offer the hand of genuine fellowship to the peoples of these 10 countries. The European Union was created to promote the cause of peace. We are charged with keeping the spirit of peace alive and working for a better future for us all. . The Hague Convention entered into force on 1 January 2002 and concerns Jurisdiction, Applicable Law, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in respect of Parental Responsibility and Measures for the Protection of Children. It is, therefore, now crucial that the Member States do everything that is needed to ensure that the Union complies with the Convention. The European Union is working towards establishing a common judicial area founded on the principle of the mutual recognition of judicial decisions. We must ensure that every judicial decision prioritises the interests of the child. We have a duty to protect our children, who are tomorrow’s adult citizens. Our society can only move forwards for the good of everyone if we are able to watch over the way our children are brought up, and over their physical and psychological development. Working for children’s rights means working for human rights, protecting them against violence, institutional violence in particular, and this will prepare them for a world of peace. –  Mr President, we have already expressed our views. We reject the request for urgent procedure. – Mr President, this resolution expresses solidarity with the democratic forces in Spain fighting for human rights. All the Spanish democrats wounded by what is happening in their country have our full and complete support. It was not only immigrants who were the victims of atrocities; the democratic system in Spain has been held up to ridicule, despite having demonstrated its tremendous capacity to evolve over the last 20 years. Employers would be lost without immigrants. Working conditions are so hard and so deplorable that no Spaniard will accept them. Low wages, the lack of housing – some are living in cardboard huts – the lack of access to social services and the de facto system of apartheid are abominable and unacceptable and are not worthy of the respect which every human being deserves. What happened at El Ejido is the result of inadmissible racist and xenophobic practices in Europe today. For four days, the immigrants were collectively hounded. Women and children were beaten. Fleeing from all quarters, hundreds of immigrants took refuge on a hill on the outskirts of the town. We are right to blacklist Haider’s Austria; but we cannot allow little local Haiders to practice policies of racial exclusion and merciless economic domination. What happened in Spain could happen in any country in the Union if we are not careful. We all have a duty to put our own house in order. I support this proposal for a resolution, especially the points which refer to the application of Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty, and point 11 of this resolution establishing a link between the Structural Funds allocated and the fight against exclusion. It would be to our credit were the European Parliament to roundly condemn these events and support all proposals tabled in order to ensure that the rights of immigrants in Spain and throughout the Union are respected. – Mr President, the Kirkhope report on which we are to vote concerns a German proposal which complements the discussions on drawing up a European policy for the return of illegal residents. Effectively fighting illegal immigration certainly requires a returns policy but returns should, however, be undertaken in a way that respects all people. We would like to mention the fact that the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Charter of Fundamental Rights prohibit collective expulsions. We are calling for an ongoing study of common definitions in the field of refusals of admission and expulsion measures. As regards illegal immigration, we have seen an increase in the number of initiatives by Member States. The many initiatives that are implemented are not harmonised at Community level and are not consistent with each other. We cannot, therefore, respond in a satisfactory manner to the human tragedies that are unfolding on our soil. Member States are adopting punitive measures to facilitate exclusion, but there is not yet a European will to define an immigration policy. It is difficult to make progress in the area of illegal immigration management without having a general framework for legal immigration, which we should already have under the Tampere agenda. For the credibility of the EU in this area we have to respond to the expectations of the public, who no longer understand what is happening with our immigration policies. The Council must continue to press for the adoption of the proposals which remain on the table. The three directives in progress on legal immigration must be adopted as quickly as possible. The proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of paid employment and self-employed economic activities was blocked in the Council. That is unacceptable. The proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, vocational training or voluntary service has not yet been presented to the Council working group. Just as the proposal for a directive on the short-term residence permit issued to victims of action to facilitate illegal immigration or trafficking in human beings who cooperate with the competent authorities may not be able to be adopted at the Justice and Home Affairs Council at the end of November as planned. We all know, however, that we urgently need this weapon to fight organised crime. If the Council does not move forward on the issue of legal immigration, the degree of harmonisation risks being reduced to the lowest common denominator and any action against illegal immigration will be neither effective nor inclusive. –  The European Parliament is an essential actor in the design and practical application of the Union’s policy on human rights. Its influence in ensuring that treaties are amended with those rights in mind is becoming increasingly evident. We must therefore pay close attention to the human rights situation in Member States when shortcomings are revealed in our systems. In my home town of Lyons I am confronted every day, in the most graphic terms, with the suffering of refugees and with trafficking in human beings, particularly in women. We must therefore harmonise our legislation and adopt a legally restrictive instrument, so as to guarantee real protection for the victims of trafficking in human beings. We ought to be able, without any problem, to extradite those who traffic in human beings, and to confiscate the profits from their criminal activities, using the proceeds to create a European compensation fund to be used to help their victims. We ought to be able to give a humanitarian right of residence to the victims of trafficking in human beings and domestic slavery, and we ought to be able to guarantee that people who are arrested and held at police stations are given immediate access to legal and medical assistance and, where necessary, to an interpreter. We ought to be able to obtain, as a matter of urgency, better protection for unaccompanied minors, in particular by offering them, as quickly as possible, the assistance of a tutor or legal adviser. I should also like to ask for a certain amount of consistency in this Parliament. If the Community’s policy on immigration, which is the subject of a report currently being examined at the committee stage, were to be based solely on the selfish economic interests of European countries, it would not really guarantee all the fundamental rights that we are defending here today. –  Mr President, the increase in the number of asylum seekers over the last few years is causing grave problems for Member States, which are having serious difficulty in coping with the situation. As Deputy Mayor of the city of Lyon, I see this problem every day. In my city, the number of conventional asylum seekers has doubled in a little less than a year. The two Commission communications that we are debating today are certainly an important step forward. However, we must go further and put an end to the current situation, in which some Member States allow in refugees coming from certain countries whereas others do not. We must ensure that the countries that receive refugees really do have the means to do so. In recent times, however, those means have been reduced. We can no longer receive asylum seekers with dignity. In our cities we have families living under canvas. This is absolutely unacceptable. Winter is approaching and we are heading for a catastrophe. In order to make progress, however, I invite, above all, the governments of Member States and the Council to take the courageous decisions that are necessary. Insisting on maintaining positions which are too national will end up becoming indecent and irresponsible when the lives of thousands of refugees are at stake and when certain districts in our major European cities are at risk of turning into ghettos. – Mr President, today we face real problems as a result of the massive influx of families of refugees arriving with toddlers and babies in tow to seek asylum. This situation is caused by the distress of thousands of refugees and displaced persons, who have had to leave countries in which they are politically, economically or socially oppressed and in which wars and conflicts are raging, often against their will and sometimes at the cost of their life. We need proper refugee centres, otherwise it is all down to the local authorities and they can no longer cope. They do not have the human resources, infrastructure or funds needed to respond to this distress. So what we have to do is find a satisfactory long-term response to these problems and adopt a humane approach in terms of asylum and immigration policy. We cannot continue to close our eyes to these problems. We cannot continue to bury our head in the sand. That way we are heading for a catastrophe. If serious problems persist at the entrance to the Channel Tunnel despite the joint efforts of the French and British governments to stop refugees trying to cross illegally, it is because we have no joint asylum policy at European level. Every country in the European Union is affected because the difficulties we face stem from the fact that we have no harmonised asylum procedures in Europe. We therefore need to adopt a package of measures to implement a European asylum policy post haste. We need to all join forces and examine the problems facing us. The European Union needs to demonstrate its determination to take fast decisions on various instruments, on minimum standards in refugee centres and on procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status in the spirit, lest we forget, of the Tampere European Council. . –  The proposal for a regulation will suffer from the same weaknesses as the Dublin Convention since the basic principles are, fundamentally, identical. The greatest burden is now placed upon the countries of the east and south, which must receive the highest numbers of people applying for asylum. The report makes some progress, however, and puts forward some positive points that must not be dismissed and that is why we voted in its favour. A single Member State is responsible for the asylum application, the concern for family unity is given greater importance, and the personal details of asylum applicants and the members of their families are still relatively protected. Replacing the Convention with a regulation is therefore subject to interpretation by the Court of Justice and monitoring by the Court and by the Commission, is a further step towards achieving an area of freedom, security and justice. . –  Mr President, I will be very brief. This convention is the first global instrument on combating criminal networks to contain universal definitions of fundamental notions of criminal law in the field of the fight against organised crime. The international community now has a comprehensive instrument with which to fight in a concerted way against the rise in organised crime. I therefore call on those Member States of the European Union that have not yet ratified this convention to do so quickly. ( . –  Increasing numbers of women and children are victims of – as you would expect – physical, but also psychological violence. It is women and children who suffer the most from violence, but we must not forget that men are also sexually exploited and also suffer. We must therefore put in place effective measures to combat all forms of violence, by combining prevention, punitive action and support for victims. The Daphne programme is an effective instrument and it must be further developed. The fight against trafficking in human beings must include penalties that act as a deterrent and that are common across all Member States. All NGOs must be actively supported and violence must be understood in the broad sense. All forms of violence must be opposed because violence is unacceptable. . – We are all deeply affected by the bloody events in the Middle East, following which hopes of peace are fading. We cannot remain indifferent in the face of attacks that terrify the children of Israel, and we cannot remain indifferent towards the suffering of the Palestinian people, a people that has been oppressed and humiliated. When Mr Rabin was assassinated, Mr Netanyahu established further colonies, and hopes of peace grew fainter. When peace was given a second chance thanks to Camp David, let us not forget that Mr Barak made more concessions than ever, but Mr Arafat did not accept the extended hand of peace. As Europeans, we cannot stand and watch this tragedy unfold, nor accept the insulting treatment to which the European Union delegation was subjected. It is clear that the attitude of the Israeli Government marks a turning point in relations between Israel and the European Union. Nevertheless, we must not abandon the Israeli people. The aim of the draft compromise resolution submitted at the plenary session of the European Parliament is to examine the possibility of suspending the EU-Israel Association Agreement in the future, but I would emphasise that penalising the Israeli people may not be the best way to get through to the person we want to influence, namely Ariel Sharon. .–  Prison conditions in Europe are alarming; the report before us today highlights the increase in the prison population, overcrowding, the increase in the numbers of foreign prisoners and the increase in the number of prisoners awaiting sentence. A Council of Europe report also refers to the persistence of ill treatment and unsuitable and insufficient prison buildings, as well as mentioning the inadequate activities and care provided, and of the increase in drug addiction. I support the drafting of a European Prisons Charter containing binding rules for Member States. We call on the Member States to release funds to modernise prisons and to provide more suitable training for the police and prison staff. We propose more widespread use of alternatives to prison sentences. We would also like to increase opportunities for Members of the European Parliament to visit prisons. All the amendments I tabled in committee were adopted. They seek to strengthen several aspects of the report. All inmates must be able to take part in schemes designed to help them reintegrate back into society, so that fewer of them re-offend. It is essential to strengthen measures to prevent violence between fellow prisoners and prevent suicide. Special protection must be given to juveniles and women, particularly pregnant women and mothers of young children. .If an inhabitant of Sub-Saharan Africa gets wind of the discussions that we have in the European Parliament, he must quickly realise that a good number of our issues for debate can only affect rich countries. Indeed, when he looks at his personal situation and that of the great majority of his own, he will realise that there is a gap growing between the old continent and this developing Africa. We, however, have a message to give to him. Since Europe, as we are continually declaring, is based on the values of humanism and solidarity, we need to put these noble sentiments into practice. We need to help those who are suffering; we have the means to do so. Medicines to start with, to put an end to the deaths of over 28 000 children under five years old who die every day from illnesses that can be treated, many of them easily. We can also help and support the sick who are victims of AIDS with treatments that we have for patients in Europe, but which are too expensive for developing countries. Is there any greater inequality than that in the face of an illness? We also have the financial means. How can we remain impassive when, for example, the funds that we have earmarked for development are not used and these amounts could save human lives… . –  Mr President, I would just like to clarify one point with regard to the voting list. I would ask that we vote against the Committee’s Amendments Nos 21 and 26 in order to be able to support the compromise amendments tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. . – Following the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit, we have always stressed the need for a balance between quality and quantity. We have therefore made some real progress, and we must combat the scourge of unemployment. However, we need to be on our guard in relation to social plans, company restructuring, relocations and mass redundancies. We cannot be content with the precarious situation being experienced by an increasing number of our fellow citizens. Parliament has a real duty to guard against these things. Mr Mann has given the opposite message, which is unacceptable, by presenting us with an entirely neo-liberal profession of faith. We now need a real battle against poverty and in favour of employment. We do not accept casual, unqualified jobs, and we do not accept employees being placed in a precarious situation. On the contrary, we need to place the emphasis on training and qualifications, and support the most vulnerable. We need to be very vigilant on the employment of women, and we need to enable young people to enter the employment market with hope. We do not want the markets in the service trade (GATS) to be deregulated and opened up unchecked. We will not sacrifice all our social heritage which has been acquired at such a high price. Today we have voted on a important issue. Eight thousand ingredients have already been tested and are available for use in industry, and I believe it was essential to reject cosmetic testing on animals. Some have put forward the public health argument in opposition to the amendments prohibiting these tests, but it must be reiterated that on no account can the results of tests carried out on animals automatically be considered valid for human beings. This is a genetic and scientific fact which would have serious consequences in just ten or twenty years. I am saying this not just as an animal lover but out of respect for living creatures. The fundamental question is, in fact, how much we are capable of sacrificing to the myths of eternal life, eternal beauty and eternal youth. This is essentially a philosophical and humanistic question which is currently one of a number of concerns our people want politicians to address The debates on globalisation, large corporations and their profits and the respect for and dignity of all human beings reflect similar concerns. We have just expressed our opinion on the revision of pharmaceutical legislation. The modified directive will allow a greater degree of harmonisation between the Member States when it comes to the rules governing medicines. It may increase the effectiveness with which the centralised and decentralised procedures operate. We want the Member States to ensure, however, that preference is given to homeopathic medicines manufactured and marketed in the Community. We have voted in favour of the amendments that could resolve a number of problems caused by the legal vacuum in which certain homeopathic medicines still exist. Not only do these medicines, used by more than a hundred million Europeans, not have side effects, but they also enable the health services to make savings. We are definitely keen to preserve those homeopathic medicines that meet the demand from our countries’ citizens. We have also come out in favour of developing Europe’s generic pharmaceutical industry, for, if we want to preserve our social protection, we have to make savings, and generic medicines help us do that. – Madam President, international criminal networks have become considerably stronger and more organised in recent years. Factors such as globalisation can be seen to have enhanced the possibilities of laundering dirty money and the means of avoiding prosecution. According to figures released by the United Nations, 1 000 billion dollars are recycled every year through money laundering operations. Money laundering is a difficult offence to detect, and crime syndicates take advantage of every loophole in the various legal systems. As a result, international cooperation in police and judicial matters is the only way of effectively thwarting this illegal practice. At European level, mutual assistance in criminal matters has already, in general terms, seen the adoption of several texts, such as the Council of Europe’s Convention of 20 April 1959 and, very recently, the European Convention of 29 May 2000, for which our fellow MEP, Mr Di Pietro, acted as rapporteur. In the more specific area of combating money laundering, we could cite the Council Directive of 10 June 1991, as recently amended, for which our fellow MEP, Mr Lehne, acted as rapporteur. The initiative from the French Presidency that we are examining today is aimed at improving the two blanket conventions on mutual assistance in criminal matters that I have just mentioned, specifically in the field of combating money laundering. The convention that we have before us improves these earlier texts, and we welcome these improvements. By virtue of Article 2 of the draft Convention, the Member States can no longer decline to conduct searches or seize items by invoking the reservations set out in Article 5 of the Convention of 1959. Article 4 states that in order to facilitate enquiries, the Member States must take appropriate measures to promote the transfer and safekeeping of data relating to the existence, location and movement of the proceeds of crime, while Article 5 states that the Member States are required to furnish information on banking activities. Article 6, for its part, provides for the making of supplementary requests for mutual assistance, and Article 7 states that fiscal exceptions can no longer constitute a reason for refusing mutual assistance. One can only approve of the body of measures contained in this draft Convention. They respond to the concerns expressed by the Tampere European Council concerning the fight against money laundering, which is the very root of organised crime and which must be eradicated wherever it is found. It would seem to me that certain improvements could be proposed, and that is the point of my report. The non-invocability of banking and commercial secrecy in response to requests for mutual assistance is set down in Article 3. It would seem to me essential to extend this non-invocability to encompass the commercial and financial advice activities of lawyers and members of regulated legal professions, which due to their nature are not governed by professional secrecy. Furthermore, Article 8 of the draft Convention limits the reasons which Member States may invoke for refusing to provide assistance to “essential interests”. This represents progress, but for mutual assistance not to lose any of its impact in an area in which only rapid cooperation at European level can be of any meaning, it would seem worthwhile to only grant the Member State asked for information two months in which to make known its refusal to give assistance. Article 9 requires the Member States to set up integrated multidisciplinary teams at national level in order to enhance the efficiency of searches and promote information exchanges. I propose that a coordination unit be set up for these multidisciplinary teams. This unit could facilitate information exchanges between the relevant authorities in the Member States and encourage the selection and use of best practices. The sole aim of these proposals is to achieve mutual assistance that is as effective as possible and meets the challenges posed by organised crime, particularly in the field of money laundering. –  Mr President, I should like to thank the French Presidency for its very clear statement. Our priority in criminal matters is combating crime, particularly money laundering. France’s request for a joint Council of Ministers for Justice, Home Affairs, Economic Affairs and Finance devoted to combating money laundering, was therefore extremely interesting. Let me also draw your attention, at this point, to the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters to combat organised crime, tabled by the French Presidency in order to remove the obstructions affecting the work of judges. Studies indeed show that impressive amounts of criminal proceeds are amassed by organised crime and reinvested in the world economy. In this way, criminal organisations infiltrate the economic fabric of states and can, if they so wish, destabilise our economies by taking control of commercial companies. Legal and police cooperation is absolutely vital in the fight against organised crime, particularly the trafficking of human beings, the sexual exploitation of children, and money laundering. The Member States must define common penalties and adopt a consistent overall policy. We cannot, however, discuss penalties without discussing crime prevention, and clearly we must implement programmes for educational and information purposes, directed, in particular, at the citizens of our own States but also at the populations of third countries. Criminal organisations can find themselves in a position of strength thanks to the financial operations they carry out in order to launder criminal proceeds. The fight against organised crime is an important undertaking, where we must not fail. The victims expect a great deal of us and this is a challenge we must accept. The Europe we want to build is a Europe of rights. One of these rights is the right to security for all. . –  Madam President, on 14 November in this very Chamber I tabled a report – which Parliament approved – on behalf of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on a French initiative with a view to adopting a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters. Today the Council is consulting us once again, this time on a new text of a draft protocol. Following the Extraordinary European Council meeting of 21 September, which was devoted to the fight against terrorism, we are called on to make a decision on this as a matter of urgency. Obviously I understand that current circumstances are impelling the European Union to strengthen cooperation as quickly as possible in the fight against terrorism. Nevertheless, I should like to make a number of comments. I will start by expressing my regret that the Council did not accept the amendment which we proposed and which sought to extend the non-invocability of professional secrecy to commercial activities and the financial advice activities of lawyers and other members of regulated legal professions. I do actually still believe that this provision is essential to the effectiveness of judicial cooperation to combat money laundering. I also regret the fact that the Council did not reach an agreement on dual criminal liability. Having said this, I see that the text of the protocol contains much more precise provisions on monitoring banking transactions. I also note with interest that in the future it will be Eurojust which will play a major role in ensuring that the mutual assistance system works smoothly. Having made these comments, I can of course go along with the Commission and accept that the European Parliament should, in this exceptional case – without a report and in accordance with the urgent procedure – today approve the text which is before it. –  Mr President, I am sorry not to be able to ask this question, as Mrs Bérès asked me to put it very directly to Commissioner Bolkestein. With regret, however, I accept the constraints of the Rules of Procedure. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like us, through our fellow Members from Toulouse who are with us today, starting with the President of the sitting, to express our condolences and our solidarity with all the victims of the tragedy in Toulouse. I, like other speakers, would also like to pay special tribute to the marvellous chain of emergency aid workers, both professional and voluntary, that was put together in Toulouse and, in particular, to the enormous dignity shown by the people of Toulouse in these extremely difficult circumstances. What happened there is unimaginable. The death toll is indeed terrible, but is much lower than it might have been, given the unbelievable force of the explosion and the huge damage caused by this explosion in a heavily populated area. I agree with Mr Onesta when he says that, since there is no such thing as zero risk, especially in industry, we must now take stock and change our approach. In other words, we must apply the precautionary principle in land use planning. This means, whenever possible – and it will, unfortunately, only be possible in very limited cases – relocating businesses that are at risk, whilst protecting jobs. This is a concern that other speakers have also expressed. It would be particularly unfair for workers in industry to face an added risk – a social risk, that of losing their job – in addition to risks at work. The problem is also, and, perhaps, mainly, one of controlling urban development because, and we must be honest about this, in many cases, residential areas have merged with industrial areas. Near to the site in Toulouse, there was a major shopping centre. In my municipality, which has a factory just like the one in Toulouse, building permits are still being issued for communal housing, less than 800 metres from the site. Mainly, Commissioner, I would say that the draft amendment to the Seveso II directive must take account of these problems of urban growth, not least by increasing the responsibilities of businesses but also of the elected authorities that issue building permits. Lastly, I should like to echo the feeling of helplessness that I experience as a Member of the European Parliament every time that we have the misfortune to encounter this type of event. The European Union does not do all it can when faced with disasters of this scale. Every time we give the commitment to move closer to the citizens of Europe, we must remember that we are not there when they go through distressing or intensely emotional times. I asked Commissioner Barnier this question after the storms in 1999, and it has come back to haunt us. I know that the credit line has been discontinued, but since this is the case, let us at least imagine the Utopia, as Mrs de Veyrac said, of a Eurocorps for civil defence, which is happening for the army. In other words, a rapid action force could also quite easily exist in the field of civil defence. Mr President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to thank all of my colleagues, firstly the rapporteurs of these four important reports, but also all my colleagues in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism for the very significant work which has been done on these four texts. I think that this is a very good example of Parliament adding value to the initial Commission proposals. We have added a considerable amount to them, which I think is positive, and in response we have had great understanding from the Commission and the Council, which means that the texts are ultimately very gratifying to us as MEPS. I would like to go back to this package to say that, as a whole, we are very pleased with it, particularly thanks to the work of Mrs Cederschiöld in the Conciliation Committee, in particular the safety package, which was absolutely necessary as a strong political signal prior to enlargement. I think that the date that we are reaching is not insignificant. At a time when we want to welcome ten new countries, we have to renew a very strong safety requirement in an area, railways, in which ultimately the job is about safety. With regard to interoperability, we know that it is one of the essential conditions for opening up the networks. Opening up to competition would not overcome the technical barriers that still exist and which mean that, for example, the Thalys locomotive has to take on board computer equipment capable of reading the different control and operation systems on the small Thalys network. Therefore, bringing all of this up to standard and starting on this vast project is essential for the future of the railways. With regard to the Agency, I think that it is very important to establish a tool to enable the Commission to work on a more daily basis on implementing this major policy and major ambition for the railways. I am personally very honoured to have been able to bring this matter to a close having made significant changes. These include, for the first time, involvement of all the social partners – in particular, but not exclusively, the unions – in working groups and management board. We would have liked to set an example in another area, as we think that for the Agency, the Council should stop requiring one representative per country, which now means that we have a representation of the Council of 25 members, two of which do not have rail networks. This shows the absurdity of the system, which creates mechanisms that will very soon be unworkable, in particular when we want to push enlargement further, towards the Balkans and perhaps beyond. I therefore hope that the commitment made by the Council and the Commission to adopt a directive in the coming years to create order within the agencies and establishing a standard model for all of them, in order to put an end to the disparities, will be respected for the purpose of better governance. Finally, regarding access to the network, my fellow MEP Mr Jarzembowski is aware of my reluctance, not regarding opening up to competition, but the fact that it brings with it a number of requirements. I consider that in this text, which is acceptable regarding freight, we are going to have to be careful about opening up to international passenger traffic. In particular, what bothers me in this text is that it states that there will be an evaluation on 1 January 2006, when 1 January 2006 is the opening date. I do not see how we can evaluate a text which will be implemented at the same time as the evaluation report. On a more general note and to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you a few comments on our major objective, which is sustainable mobility, and therefore developing railways and waterways, rather than giving in to the rise in road traffic that will one day pose severe political problems. I think that opening up, in the sense in which we see it, in other words as purely liberal, creating competition on the networks, is not the panacea. We are currently blindly working towards that goal. In reality, we are well aware that there is no funding for interoperability. We are well aware that there are colossal investments to make and the financial perspectives do not respond to the request for financial resources made by Commissioner de Palacio herself in order to fund trans-European transport networks and, in particular, rail networks. In short, I do not think that anything will be done. Today is a step forward without the railwaymen, because there are extremely strong national cultures in these companies, that is how it is, because they are labour companies. I think that we need to promote sectoral dialogue before issuing directives, which is what we did this time. We need to continue in this way, but I also hope that one day we will move towards a collective railwaymen’s agreement, whether they are employed by private or public companies, so that they can own this tremendous rebirth of the railways which is of benefit to everyone who wants us to have a less polluting method of transport. . As Member for a tobacco-producing region, I would like to express my reservations about the proposal for a ‘tobacco’ directive. Nobody questions the validity of its aims: smoking kills 500 000 people per year in the European Union alone. We must therefore fight vigorously against smoking, just as we must fight unremittingly against drug addiction, alcoholism and all dangerous addictions, whether they are of natural or chemical origin. In this respect, we can only share this report’s proposals, which seek more effectively to warn, make aware and inform consumers of the risks to which they are exposing themselves through excessive tobacco consumption. Let us even go beyond labelling or limiting toxic substances by making better use than we currently do of the special fund established under the common organisation of the market for tobacco and to which producers pay contributions in order to fund the research and development of less harmful varieties. On the other hand, however, let us be careful not to destabilise too suddenly, without allowing time to convert, a farming sector that involves 135 000 producers and employs 400 000 seasonal workers, in often very vulnerable agricultural regions. In this case, there are a few basic principles which I feel must guide our action: we must act fairly against all factors likely to cause addiction, such as advertising and excessive consumption of dangerous pharmacological substances – funded, moreover, from the social security system –and we must ensure that restrictions on tobacco production within the Union are accompanied by the monitoring and restriction of imports so that their effects on consumption are not cancelled out. We must give tobacco growers an adequate timescale in which to adapt their production to the new standards for tar content and we must reject any restriction on subsidies for tobacco production unless we replace them with aid as an incentive for conversion. In other words, we must ensure that it is not only European Union producers – who supply only 25% of the raw tobacco consumed in Europe – who, without compensation or an adequate timescale, bear the costs of a regulation which is undeniably praiseworthy, but which is too sketchy in the form that has been proposed to us. . –  I voted enthusiastically for the report by our fellow Member, Olivier Duhamel, because it sounds the same note as the great voices and great expressions of resolve that have, step by step, advanced the course of European integration since the war. But this particular voice, and this is significant, is a parliamentary voice, the voice of an institution that attests a little more each day to the authority of the peoples within the Union and its triangle of institutions. Step by step, treaty by treaty, and we hope the Treaty of Nice will not belie this, the old nationalist attitudes within Europe are expanding out of these narrow confines leading to the creation of a world power in a world of giants. Everyone here knows that Europe, its currency, its diplomacy, its security, its civilisation, its culture and its social model can only truly survive the splendid history of its peoples, but also the fruitless dissension between them, by becoming a federation of nation states with strong, coherent and respected institutions, enshrined in a European Constitution, towards which Mr Duhamel has paved the way. Until the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997, Europe was an intergovernmental super-syndicate. With the Treaty of Amsterdam and the extension of the codecision procedure, the European Parliament has effectively set Europe on the road to political integration and supranationality. If, tomorrow, the Union wishes to embrace Europe in its entirety, the geographical Europe, extending even beyond the next wave of enlargement, it will need institutions that are fully mature in political and democratic terms. What history will remember of this year 2000, which some people find too dull, is that it saw the advancement and affirmation of the idea of a European Constitution, backed by the majority of Members of this Parliament, which led, today, to the adoption of the Duhamel report. That is why we must fervently hope that the Nice Summit and the Intergovernmental Conference prove a success, so as to enable us, quite simply, to make further progress very rapidly. Despite the commendable efforts of Mr Lannoye, I personally voted against this text which aims to authorise the addition of 5% of vegetable fats to chocolate. This is the very type of European regulation which leads to a lack of understanding among our fellow citizens and which prepares the ground for Euro-scepticism. Where a clear and unambiguous labelling obligation would have been sufficient to allow the marketing of all the types of chocolate available in Europe, one of those grotesque compromises at which we are so adept has been proposed. Instead of no vegetable fats as specified in eight Member States or 10% as specified in other Member States, the knife has fallen at 5% for the whole of Europe! This 5% of vegetable fats, which of course cannot be verified, will be of greatest benefit to the chocolate industry which will soon flood the market with cheap imitation chocolate, thereby causing an increase in the price of real chocolate which will become a luxury product for privileged consumers. Will we now harmonise the composition of tomato ketchup, mustard, cooked meats, cheese, beer or pizzas, all in the name of a single market aiming to promote a single taste solely for the benefit of the food business? Although it is legitimate, out of concern for public health, to lay down legislation on manufacturing processes and the traceability of products, it is not legitimate to impose a standard food style for the whole of Europe solely in the interests of ‘big business’. Although the construction of the internal market is a way to strengthen Europe in the face of world competition, this must not lead to a totalitarian dogma and meddling at all levels of our home life. In particular, the diversity of Europe’s gastronomy and food customs is part of its heritage and culture, if only at the cost of local specialities foreign to the internal market. The people of Europe do not want this to be a place with standardised consumers living in a large uniform internal market. They expect major political ambition from Europe, not punctilious regulations of secondary importance. –  Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for her reply, which at least has the merit of being clear, and which resembles that of a child caught with its fingers in the jam pot. It is clear, as you have just said, that you have found an escape route via the Green Paper on services of general interest. Nevertheless, the intention was, and still is, to break away, if possible, from Parliament and the Member States, in order to impose a directive which actually comes down to dismantling the postal service. We must learn to call a spade a spade. I should like to echo what Mr Posselt said, though his argument was somewhat paradoxical. He is in favour of liberalisation, but deplores the fact that post offices are being closed down and that the public postal service is deteriorating. Yet this is inevitable. It is clear that a public service cannot be profitable, particularly when it has to ensure an equal service in highly populated areas and in regions which are much more sparsely populated. If we divide up the public service and want to turn it into a centre of profit, that will mean the end of the public postal service, the end of any postal presence throughout the territory, and the end of the social nature of this sector. That is why – and I would ask you, Commissioner, to pass on this message to Messrs Monti and Bolkestein – we are intransigent. We are intransigent in our support for the democratic principle which you are seeking to circumvent and to flout, by changing the legal basis and by trying to avoid Parliament. I know that democracy is a dreadful bore for all executives, but it is, nonetheless, a proof of civilisation. We will naturally be prepared to go much further if the Commission persists in its attempt and in its desire to pursue its liberal offensive by breaking away from the people and their representatives. I can tell you this, Commissioner, we would not hesitate to contest the legal basis, before the Court of Justice of the European Communities, if Mr Bolkestein persists in this disastrous project, which is no surprise to us, coming as it does from him. – I would first like to congratulate the Commissioner and thank all the members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism who have worked so enthusiastically on these documents. I would like to express my appreciation first to the four rapporteurs for their excellent work, and to all the political groups. I think that we have all put a lot into this second package because we feel that we need to develop the European rail network. In the first place, I believe that we must make it clear to those who might have certain concerns or prejudices about the issue, that Europe really does need a railway network. Europe needs a railway network because it will have to deal with serious environmental problems in the years to come. The public will not forgive us for not developing alternatives to road transport. Furthermore, European Union involvement in railways represents an opportunity for the sector, not a constraint or a threat. What is clear is that the rail systems inherited from the old nation states are today no longer able to meet current demands. As the Commissioner has reminded us, it is apparent that as regards freight transport in particular, in regions like mine, the cancer of lorries and cars is spreading day by day and people are continually asking us for solutions. I therefore believe that we need to commit ourselves firmly to developing the European rail system. At present there are three solutions or approaches to this problem. The first way involves national tensions or, in other words, undeclared protectionism. It also entails corporatism and national vote-winning measures. I think that this approach, evident in France and Germany, is not the way forward. We should not fear opening up within the European Union. Once again, this represents an opportunity for the rail sector as a whole. There is a second way of addressing the problem. I think that the incidents involving theand the  should give us cause for reflection. There is a price to be paid for transport. Transport policy cannot solely involve lowering prices through unbridled competition. We must not ignore recent maritime disasters. As a result of these terrible events we are today to set new standards and doubtless increase the cost of transporting dangerous goods by sea. At the same time we are moving in the opposite direction in the rail sector, and saying that policy of dumping at any price and competition at any price is an end in itself. I think that the third way of tackling the rail sector is that of opening it up in a controlled way. This involves maintaining the culture and expertise developed by the rail sector while ensuring that networks are opened up. In my opinion, this is the Swiss way. The first way, the French and German way, is too conservative. There are lessons to be learnt regarding the second British and Dutch way. The third, the Swiss way, opening up within a framework of functional integration, should be our enduring model. If we do not adopt this model, we are likely to be severely disappointed. The European Union should of course direct this policy. In particular, it should have control of the implementation of rules and European harmonisation measures incumbent on all Member States. I believe that safety must be an absolute priority, because a safety culture is crucial for the railways. It is therefore essential that we adopt this approach. I would like to thank Commissioner de Palacio for the proposals that formed the basis of these very important reports. As regards the Sterckx report, a crucial document in my opinion, we must be fully aware that safety policy must not amount to a policy for diluting responsibilities. We must not draw up a policy that will entail the levelling-down of safety standards. Rather, we must have a very demanding policy that maintains functional integrity. This means maintaining the functional integration of the railway while ensuring political and judicial independence. As regards the Ainardi report, I would simply hope that the amendments compatible with those relating to the Agency are adopted. Lastly, on my report relating to an Agency to harmonise rail safety, the competent committee has already voted on 48 amendments. I thought we could have left it there, but yet another amendment has just been tabled. We hoped this Agency would be an executive Agency of the Commission, steered by the Commission as far as possible. Thus we have an amendment stating that the Commission would preside over the Agency. This falls within the scope of the executive. One would therefore assume that the European Parliament would not be represented. I would like the number of Member States not to be increased but to remain at six. I would like them to adopt an executive posture, rather than what could be termed a parliamentary or legislative one. I trust they will find it in themselves to do so. In addition, we hoped to make the Agency a common organisation for the whole of the European rail industry. I am personally convinced that we will not be able to develop a European rail system if the players in the sector are not agreed on working together to develop it. We have therefore proposed including representatives from the entire rail sector on the administrative board. Clearly, this will allow progress to be made on many issues. Lastly, we hope there will be consultative committees, inquiry bodies and safety authorities. I have to say that personally I would be very worried if Amendment No 49 were carried, as this would destroy the entire proposal. It seems to me that, on the occasion of this significant vote on the Agency, it would be unfortunate to content ourselves with the text adopted by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. I will finish on that note. I had intended to comment on the Jarzembowski report but I have run out of time and will do so in private. –  Mr President, I represent an Atlantic coastal region in France, and therefore in Europe, which has just been affected by the pollution from the . I would like to say that people are genuinely disturbed by what is happening, in particular because this is a new kind of pollution, because it is chronic and because we do not know how long it will last. I consequently believe that Parliament should accept the committee of inquiry that it previously rejected. We cannot want to strengthen the liability system and at the same time reject the idea of a parliamentary body such as ours going to the scene to find out what happened and drawing the appropriate conclusions. Secondly, I believe we must decide what to do with the wreck. We cannot leave thousands of fishermen and shellfish-gatherers as well as workers in the tourism sector, waiting around indefinitely, without proposing an industrial solution. I personally would ask the European Union to issue a call for projects soon, in order to try to find this industrial solution, which we are assured exists, in particular within the COMEX, which is one of the major world specialists in this area. –  Mr President, I would like to add to the praise for Mr Costa, the rapporteur, because this is an extremely difficult subject and there are very conflicting opinions. Furthermore, he has had many amendments to work through. When all is said and done, I believe that the text presented is clear and consistent – no mean feat. I think that this contribution by the European Parliament will enable the Commission to make good progress in its subsequent work. The issue of infrastructure charging is perhaps one of the most difficult for the general public to understand, but it is perhaps also the key to achieving our objective of a sustainable freedom of movement, given that the number of people travelling and the amount of freight transported within the Union is expected to increase considerably. Today, we know that road travel produces the most pollution but that it is also cheaper in terms of both infrastructure financing, which is often funded by the community, and in terms of its use. Therefore, if we really wish to travel without causing so much damage to the environment, we will certainly need to establish charging; that is, how the various types of transport pay the real price of costs. All the same, I believe that we must be very aware that the rail system is not and will not for many years be in a position to compete to a great extent with road transport, in particular in terms of freight transport or combined transport links, which are urgent priorities. There are still considerable infrastructure costs and infrastructure and investment needs, and rail companies’ profits do not provide enough to cover them. Compared to road tolls, those on the railways are still too high with a concomitant strain on operating costs. The issue of charging is therefore absolutely central to this matter and if we really wish to improve transport we need to be in a position to absorb efficiently the external costs of transport; as mentioned; in other words, so that road transport actually pays for all the costs it entails, as does rail transport, and so that the prices charged accurately reflect this transparency regarding costs. We should not, however, close our eyes to one political stumbling block in all this. The political stumbling block is that our fellow citizens want to travel. They believe that they have the right to freedom of movement, something I think we should bear in mind, and very often they do not differentiate freight transport and the private car. This was obvious last September. Therefore, on a political level, we must take a cautious approach, which should be both gradual and selective. A gradual approach means that we cannot impose extra costs on road travel until the railway is in a position to take over from it, and for the time being the railway is not in any such position. A selective approach is needed, because I believe that we have to distinguish between private transport and goods transport and that we may also have to gradually introduce taxes on heavy goods vehicles, if we really wish to improve pollution in regions like ours, that act as crossroads. –  Mr President, echoing the thoughts of a number of Members, I should like to tell you that, two and a half months after the wreck, the situation remains particularly critical and every day the scale of the disaster becomes even more apparent. There are two aspects, the first being the environmental angle. The wreck still contains 16 000 tonnes of heavy gas oil which is leaking and, in addition to these leaks, unfortunately, last week we observed and counted 35 acts of ecological piracy, 35 degassing operations, disgracefully aggravating this already catastrophic situation. Mrs de Palacio expressed her views at length regarding this issue and I feel she set to work without waiting for an element which today is absolutely essential, a draft European maritime law, following a draft directive on the maritime transportation of dangerous goods. From this point of view, this fits in with the wish of the French to see their presidency characterised by regulations which work towards increasing safety. The secondary impact, however, is proving to be on the economy, the primary impact being environmental and only the second economic, as many Members have stated. Shellfish farming, fishing, oyster farming and fish farming are today seriously affected, for the effects of the oil slick have been compounded by the storm damage affecting many areas. Unfortunately, these sectors have been devastated: they have first to rebuild and then, perhaps the most difficult thing, to regain consumer confidence. Confronted with this situation, the inhabitants of Brittany, the Vendée and Charente, as well as the forestry workers in other regions, await a signal from the European Union. We cannot claim that rapprochement with the citizens is the touchstone of this legislative period if, at the same time, we hold our tongues and do not offer practical responses in the face of phenomena of this magnitude. I took very careful note of Commissioner Fischler’s remarks, perhaps the most practical suggestions we have heard to date. There have been many declarations of sympathy and solidarity, and many announcements, admittedly, but now it is time for expectations to be met with a tangible display of European solidarity. –  Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Loyola de Palacio for her excellent work, and my colleague, Mr Piecyk, who, in a very short space of time, has produced a well-thought out and, in my opinion, very high quality piece of work seeking to improve the text of the proposal. I would like to focus on two points, firstly legislation. It is true that Europe has adopted a large number of measures, but it is equally true that public opinion is currently increasingly doubtful that they are being implemented. Over and above this report on double hulls – we must not, in any case, allow the examples it quotes by way of illustration to mislead us as to the impact, for we know very well that double hulls will not remove all maritime risks and that there is no such thing as zero risk – we believe that it is extremely important that the European Union ensures that the Erika I and Erika II packages are actually being enforced. In this regard, I have to say to the Commissioner that I compiled a detailed account for the port of Bordeaux last year, after the  disaster, that is. Eight old tubs featuring on the European blacklist entered the port without the French maritime authorities being able to confirm that they had been properly controlled. I suppose that what happened on a small scale in this minor port is representative of a much larger scale situation across Europe and, in my view, what our citizens now want is for Europe to make the Member States directly responsible, as directly responsible as possible, for we know that they are not all progressing at the same rate and that some are more willing to cooperate than others My second point concerns reparation for damage linked to disasters such as that of the . I have to tell you, Commissioner, that there is great disillusionment in France. The IOPCF is providing no more than 15% and the Structural Funds will not contribute any more than what is provided for under the FIFG. In my opinion, this will do a great deal of harm to the image of the European Union as a whole and to the image of the Commission, in particular. Lastly, again with regard to reparation for damage, we would like to receive accurate information on the progress made in dealing with the wreck and on what is likely to happen in the future. Are we facing chronic pollution, which will last for years, or is a solution emerging? There has been no response from the authorities for some months now. We need accurate information and we must, if possible, reassure our fellow citizens. –  Mr President, these texts have been imposed on us by exceptional, dramatic and repetitive circumstances and, faced with two accidents in less than a year, those of the  and the , public opinion has expressed a Europe-wide concern and a feeling of urgency. This shows that, in this area more than any other, we have a tremendous responsibility and we must, it seems to me, stifle any institutional pride we may have. The European Parliament has responded to this ambition of public opinion by means of a rapid, accelerated procedure, the credit for which must be firmly laid at the door of our four rapporteurs, Mr Hatzidakis, Mrs McKenna, Mr Watts et Mr Ortuondo Larrea. We had a common objective. It seems to me that that was the one we had to pursue: to arrive at a text during the December part-session and to achieve a consensus between the Council and Parliament. That is what public opinion was expecting and if, by misfortune, another accident were to happen we would be very severely judged. It turns out that two texts risk putting us at odds with the Council and so, this evening, it is likely that the imminent publication of directives and regulations, which everybody is hoping for, will not be announced. Personally, I regret that, due to over-hastiness, or perhaps due to a lack of level-headedness, these ten days have been cruelly snatched from us, and I also regret that we have not taken the hand extended to us by the Council so that, in December, in ten days to be exact, we might achieve what it seems we are all apparently hoping for throughout this Chamber. Personally, I regret this and I believe that it will be severely judged. I believe that Parliament’s position is the correct one to take on most of these texts, because it is perhaps the most demanding one, except on the issue of double hulls. Mr President, I therefore appeal for the adoption of a common position on the liability scheme of classification societies, the system of banning ships, black boxes and systematic inspections, to tackle what we will doubtless be unable to reach agreement on today. The French Presidency will have given the matter a crucial boost, the effects of which will unfortunately only be felt in two or three months’ time. We are taking any number of risks, including that of conciliation. I believe we will come to regret this. – Mr President, Commissioner, I think that first we should all congratulate ourselves on the procedure that has been adopted and which will lead us, after each of our respective political groups has rallied together and expressed its feelings, finally to produce a joint resolution. I think that given the dramatic circumstances, and as a matter of principle, it would be ill-advised and inappropriate to hold several votes. On the other hand, Parliament is issuing a resolution in one vote, for which we can see the agreement amongst the various speakers who have preceded me. I think that this is an opportunity to put parliamentary pressure on the doubts or evasions of a few governments and I think that we are providing the Commission with a powerful political act for the preparation of a European maritime area.  I think that it is quite obvious, and this is the first conclusion that can be drawn from the Erika disaster, that public opinion would find it hard to understand that we regulate chocolate but do not regulate maritime transport. Public opinion would find it hard to understand that we talk about a common judicial area, common airspace, a common rail area and a single market, but not a common maritime area. I therefore believe that this is a project which must be opened up with the absolute will to see it followed through and followed through in concrete terms.  The Commissioner has suggested three main chapters which need to be drafted and brought into line with our legislation, in which we can set standards. I have also noted, to my great satisfaction, that even the groups advocating greater national sovereignty, or the eurosceptic groups are calling for Europe to regulate, and I think that this is in fact the right level to take action. We sometimes regulate things which could, by and large, remain subsidiary. In this area we must respond to public opinion. This is extremely important and everyone should feel concerned because we are, when all is said and done, on the global scale merely a peninsula.  Therefore, once our legislation has been brought into line, we must follow this up immediately with appropriate law. We must also put in place systematic controls and finally apply the ‘polluter pays’ principle of responsibility which is, of course, supposed to be a deterrent. I have almost finished and I would like to say that I have personally requested a public hearing of the Committee on Transport, which would enable us to provide an immediate follow-up to the Erika case and to suggest possible future considerations. I hope that all political groups will support us in our request for a public hearing. –  Mr President, I have naturally voted for the Haug report on the budgetary guidelines, but I would particularly like to stress the welcome reinstatement of natural disasters, confirmed by this morning’s vote. As I have said here several times, I do not think the European Union can want to make its presence felt and to be more visible to its people than it has been up to now, whilst, at the same time, turning its back on their difficulties and misfortunes when these occur. So it is with great pleasure that I have voted for paragraphs 21 and 34. My hope is that they will be implemented rapidly, particularly for the forestry sector, which is experiencing structural difficulties and has experienced a drastic reduction in supply. I think that the Union’s natural role would be to dedicate itself to this, and I hope we can build on this report to make Parliament and the Commission aware of the need for intervention. – Mr President, first of all, with the sincerity that everyone will acknowledge in a Frenchman from the Atlantic region, I would like to express my solidarity and compassion to all the people and professionals in Galicia and Portugal who are affected by this further disaster. I think that the situation that we are in is extremely dangerous, as the public has good reason, as these disasters keep reoccurring, for wondering, doubting, becoming impatient and even rising up against the impotence of the public authorities. However, Commissioner, you are right in saying that the European Union has done a great deal, that it has done its duty in a quite remarkable timescale in terms of legislation. So where is the problem? I think that it was stated by Mr Varaut. The problem is that we are in a field in which there is urgency, in which the task of the public authorities to ensure security is highly desired by the people and in which, in reality, joint sovereignty creates considerable problems. My government, in recent days, was upset that measures had not yet entered into force; France is lagging behind in terms of checks in ports. I think that we will only overcome this situation if one day, as soon as possible, we manage to create an independent European area of maritime safety, with independent legislation, which would use regulations rather than directives – as the directives are still not practically transposed in any Member State – with independent checks and penalties. I think that this should be our ambition, or we will fail and will condemn our people to the sad spectacle of a ping-pong match between the Commission and the European Union, on the one hand, and the Member States, on the other hand, each of them trying to beat the other in dramatic circumstances that the people do not understand. –  Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate all of my fellow Members, who, in my view, have done some excellent work. The European Parliament will have had a great influence on these documents. I would also like to thank the Commissioner, Mrs Loyola de Palacio who, I believe, has worked as quickly as possible within the procedures laid down. Mr Souchet thought that the progress made was slow. I think that he is right. On the other hand, we had reached the end of a parliamentary procedure, which is very difficult to cut down when we embark on conciliation. I therefore believe that we have worked as quickly as possible and yet, it will take a total of three and a half years to draw up a text on  after the law has been transposed by the national governments. All this leads me to make some comments on governance. We discuss this elsewhere, outside the context of transport, and I think that these subjects require the codification of urgent parliamentary procedures that will allow us to proceed legally. I think that this is a proposal which is expected from bodies such as ourselves or which could be drawn up by them. We see that we have the same problem with the tunnels and the revision of the Seveso Directives. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we must spend time considering the urgent procedures which will be included in the Treaties. I also think that we must ensure that these directives are transposed into national law. We now have a body of texts and of maritime law without equal at European level, and also the  package which is currently under discussion. The Member States will no longer be able to play hide and seek with the European Commission, as they could at the beginning of the  crisis. Furthermore, we have no guarantee – as President Prodi recently said – that the directives are being transposed into national law within the time allowed. And, at the end of the day, if we can be satisfied that we have produced some good European legislation today, we still do not know whether all these measures will be implemented, and within what time scale. The victims of the oil spills and accidents have been waiting for these measures for a long time. Lastly, I think that the controls do not give enough reassurance, and this is true of all the operating provisions. These usually involve self-regulation at national level, and I think that, in terms of governance as well, and if we truly wish to move forward, we must ask ourselves the question of how we are to monitor the monitoring systems. –  Mr President, I apologise for my late arrival and I would like to thank you for rescheduling my speech to a later time. The reason why we tabled this question is because the public sees the problem at the Eurotunnel site – since it involves two large European countries and also since it concerns our security and asylum policy – as requiring intervention by the European Union. We cannot let this situation rumble on, as it would then illustrate Europe’s lack of power. This situation also implies that we have envisaged solutions that can be applied to other borders and to other locations that are under pressure from migration. We are therefore calling, since the asylum policy and judicial and security policy are not sufficiently harmonised, for the Commission to work with France and Great Britain so that strong measures can be taken in three areas. The first area is to re-establish, as far as possible, the freedom of movement, particularly that of rail freight in the Channel Tunnel. What is happening, despite considerable investment by the rail operators and the SNCF in particular, contradicts our policy of moving towards using rail rather than road. The second area is that if we fail to harmonise security legislation and mechanisms, we must take coordinated and coherent measures in the two countries to combat those involved in human trafficking, by increasing controls and introducing stiffer penalties, as this activity constitutes an intolerable attack on human rights and is a shameful trade. As far as the third area is concerned, what is happening at Eurotunnel demonstrates the urgent need to harmonise Europe’s asylum policy. This is because what is happening there, and what France and England are being remonstrated for, is a problem which may concern all European Union countries in the future. We know, thanks to the experience of what is happening throughout the world, that there will never be a perfect and wholly reliable solution, given the disorder in the world and the growing disparities between North and South. The first and most important solution, the fundamental solution is, of course, to have a much more generous and more balanced development policy. However, since we do not have this and as a short-term measure, I think that we must implement common measures in the two countries, so that we can ruthlessly track the people who trade on illusions – human traffickers, in other words. I think that this is very important. Lastly, I personally hope that, rather than leaving the these two countries to face their responsibilities alone, we find, with the help of the Commission, measures which are strong enough to be held up as an example and that can be applied to other locations in Europe. – Mr President, I want to speak about the natural disasters which hit the south of France in the night of 12 to 13 November 1999. These were totally exceptional in their violence and the extent of the damage caused and have led to 35 deaths and FRF three to four billion worth of damage. I know that the EU budget does not provide for any credit line for natural disasters occurring in the territory of the Union. It has also not escaped me that it was this House which wanted to delete this credit line. However, I must ask you to intervene and ensure that the European Union does something, because it can in two ways.  Firstly, it can authorise France to reallocate the outstanding balance of the Structural Funds not committed from the 1994-1999 programming period. Much of the funding still remains with 54% of credits not committed under Leader, 38% under Interreg, 49% under URBAN and 88% under RETEX. In order to quickly intervene, the Commission simply needs today to authorise France to redeploy part of these credits. Secondly, it can help by ensuring that, for the new programme of Structural Funds for 2000-2006, the zoning for reconstruction is properly in place and the most affected zones are included under Objective 2. Finally, is it not ironic that our Union can act totally legitimately in countries outside the EU but that it does not have the means or the ability to act within the EU? At a time when everyone, particularly Mrs Fontaine, is making rapprochement between the people of Europe and the European Union the key issue for this Parliament, I feel it is important for the EU to be able to act in a positive manner when our people are in difficulty. –  Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Alyssandrakis on this excellent and authoritative report, which urges us to put in place a Community space policy. That said, given the progress made on Galileo, I think that we are still a long way short of the target and that we must not give up what we already have for something far less certain. In other words, the intergovernmental method is now proving that it is working better than the Community method. This is because, throughout the world, space development cannot be achieved unless a number of conditions are in place. First of all, we must not be afraid of public support, funded from the public coffers. The market can fund not everything…not American rockets, not Russian rockets, not French rockets. Secondly, the military funds a large part of civilian resources; let us not beat about the bush. If we refuse to accept a dual system, we will have great difficulty in launching the space industry in Europe, given that, as you have seen with Galileo, the pacifism of this House is, at the end of the day, a gift to American militarism. I think that we must also have this set out very clearly in our minds. The Americans said that they do not want Galileo because it is incompatible on a strategic and military level with GPS. Lastly, we must also have a genuine industrial policy. However, I do not think that we are fulfilling these conditions as yet. This is something that I regret, but we must move in this direction if we eventually want the European Union to be the space power that it should be and that it must be if Europe wants to maintain a high level of technology. As a final point, I would like to say that I think if we want to move forward in this area, we must strengthen our cooperation with those who want to move in this direction and leave behind those who do not want to. And this is not simply for the sake of Galileo, it is also for the future of a European space policy. –  Mr President, I shall take advantage of this second opportunity to address the House to comment in more detail on Mr Jarzembowski’s report. This document contains two groundbreaking proposals. The first involves the abolition of the Trans-European Rail Freight Network and contemplates the complete liberalisation of international as well as national, regional and local freight networks by 2006. The second involves the opening up and liberalisation of the rail passenger network. As regards the first proposal, I share the view that we need to make a strong political gesture in support of railways. Though it may not be wise to be forever changing the dates, I personally support Mr Jarzembowski’s proposals for freight, given that the issue is now so worrying. I have many more reservations however about international rail passenger services. Unlike freight, I do not consider the liberalisation of passenger services to be an absolute priority. I regularly take the train and have not encountered any particular difficulties at border crossings. I am nevertheless aware that there are significant commercial interests at stake in this sector. I do not support the view that we should restrict ourselves simply to creating a rail market. Rather, I think we should work towards a European transport policy, which is not quite the same thing. To conclude, what has emerged clearly from today’s debate is that, whether or not we open up the rail networks, we cannot restrict our work on a European rail network to liberalisation, competition or opening up networks. If we do, we will have parts of the market that duplicate each other within the same area, and rail will constitute a substitute for road transport. Other aspects of the transport strategy therefore need to be implemented. The fixing of price scales has to be considered, as does the reduction of the social and fiscal disparities between different means of transport, especially between road and rail transport. I think that the latter should be a priority if we want to ensure that the opening up of the rail market gives the rail sector an advantage over road. We must create an investment policy, not simply a rail market. Consequently, I personally hope that this debate sends a very strong message from the European Parliament to the Council. For many months trans-European rail network funding policy has been deadlocked in the Council. It has maintained a regressive approach to the matter and does not want to consider fiscal issues, fuel taxation or large European loans. It is my belief that without a major and ambitious policy on rail infrastructure, our attempts at opening up the sector will not put a stop to the dominance of road transport but will only lead to a fight between the various rail companies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the message I would like to send from the European Parliament to the Council. –  Mr President, Commissioner, in this minute and a half I should like, first of all, to congratulate Mrs Schroedter. I know many have already done so, but she has indeed earned our praise for being particularly open and attentive to proposals from all sides, and I think it is this openness which has given her report the quality we see today. I share the regrets she expressed, namely that Parliament has become involved rather late in the day as regards these guidelines, since by now the procedure for negotiations with the states is so far advanced that I cannot see this report having any sort of immediate effect, which in my view is a pity. Consequently, I feel we must look to the future and establish guidelines for the mid-term review in 2003, and thus have an influence on the second phase of programming set to follow 2003. In brief, I would like to say that we are entering the period when we are called upon to manage the programming for 2000-2006, which must be no routine period for the good reason that we have two major challenges to face.  The first is the harmonisation of national development policies and regional development policies. Subsidies are not enough to ensure development when infrastructure and public services are lacking. We must ask ourselves a fundamental question: how can we ensure that Union policy interfaces with the subsidiary national policies for regional development? The second challenge is that of enlargement which will, of course, have a considerable impact, both in budgetary and geographical terms. These are two areas of action which I invite the Commissioner to set up and in which I would ask him to involve us. Finally, in this time of natural disasters, I would just like to mention the issue of the use of Structural Funds. As you know, it is up to each State to redistribute part of the total appropriation. Europe should not be completely absent, as the states tend to want. Public opinion and the press nowadays accuse us of being unavailable to give a response, even though we are going to be funding a large proportion of the national operations. I think we should be capable of saying this loud and clear. I also think we should ensure, or ask Member States to ensure, that there is some publicity given to European aid whenever it is used to repair damage caused by natural disasters or accidents. Mr President, I should like firstly to express my pleasure at the fact that, after a long fight and a long journey, we have finally been able to make reason prevail and have saved the budget line relating to the prevention and combating of forest fires. Following the summer of fires that we have experienced, particularly in Portugal, I think it would have been the last straw – and no doubt a disgrace – if the European Parliament had not shown its solidarity with all of Europe’s foresters who are subject to these risks of fire. I should like therefore to thank all of our fellow MEPs. Unfortunately, there was no way around these disasters or of avoiding a resolution by voting in favour of which all MEPs have agreed to join with the representatives of the Southern countries with a view to saving this budget line. I hope that, beyond 2006, we shall be able to have a still more generous policy, for these EUR 9 million – although not to be sneezed at, especially when these credits are underconsumed – are probably not enough, given the formidable challenge of preventing fires in the Mediterranean forests and in those of southern Europe. –  Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the last vote, and I would ask you to record in the Minutes the withdrawal of Amendment No 15 from the Turchi report. .  Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to say how pleased I am with how this second rail package is progressing. More generally, I am also very happy with the admirable work to promote railways undertaken during this period. I am sure all of us here today have different sensibilities. Nonetheless, we are all united in the common cause of boosting the rail sector and of giving it new hope. It is a case of convincing all the players in the rail sector that Europe is not out to handicap national rail networks. On the contrary, it is here to provide an opportunity for a renaissance of the railways. This truly is the primary objective. The second objective is to respond to public opinion. Nowadays, we are judged on how well we discharge our responsibilities. In so-called transit and junction countries like mine the trend towards transporting everything by lorry has led to intolerable situations. Significant political tensions have arisen in such countries. These tensions came to the fore over the Mont Blanc incidents and a similar situation is arising in connection with the Pyrenees. This second rail package has several dimensions. Firstly, it has a very strong technical dimension, which is embodied in particular in the report by Mrs Ainardi. We fully support her report and I personally support it unreservedly, in particular because it provides for the installation of black boxes, something that is Mrs Ainardi’s personal wish. The Sterckx report addresses technical concerns too and is also important as it establishes European safety standards. There is, therefore, no question of opening up the sector without providing a safety net. Careful preparations will be made. Safety will be at the heart of the opening up process. Safety must always be our objective and our watchword. In this connection, I have a more qualified opinion about the relationship between national safety standards and European safety standards. I believe safety cannot be sacrificed in the interests of freedom. As regards the rail sector, safety is obviously crucial at all times to the work of railway employees. Nevertheless, I think it is essential not to use standards as a pretext for preventing other trains from using a particular network. Personally, I hope an appropriate agreement upholding the safety imperative will be reached on this matter. Lastly, for the first time these texts have a very significant social dimension to them, which fills me with great hope. I share the view that far greater progress has been made on integrating the European Union’s roads than on integrating its railways and I have said as much. The reason why rail is lagging behind is that so far railway employees have failed to understand that we are also trying to integrate the railway employees of the European Union, which will be to their benefit too. Significant progress has been made, nonetheless. Firstly, there is the establishment of the Agency. This achievement is down to my fellow Members, and to the understanding and ongoing support of the Commission and the Council. The Agency will bring employers and employees together for the first time. I think we should feel satisfied with this. I believe this agency should be a common forum for the rail sector. This was why we sought to include employees’ representatives as well as bringing together rail users, rail companies and infrastructure managers. I trust Amendment No 4 and Amendment No 5 will be upheld. In particular, I hope the provision in Article 3 for trade unions in working groups will be retained. I believe this represents a considerable step forward. Both the Sterckx and the Ainardi reports uphold the principle of the primacy of social dialogue in the legislative processes of the European Union. Whenever employers and unions can come to an agreement, within a suitable time frame, the need to legislate can be avoided. Legislation can then be drafted at a later date. From this point of view, the developments regarding the driver’s licence mark a turning point. This is the first time the 32 rail companies and union representatives have reached such an agreement which will form the basis of a text. This text will, of course, inform the Commission’s work too. Thanks to the agreement, the Commission’s work will have far greater legitimacy than it would otherwise have had. I hope all this augurs the establishment in the very near future of a convention bringing together all European rail employees. I believe that this will trigger the liberation of European Union railways and lead to their rapid integration. Liberalisation is also an issue. My views on this are much more qualified than those of Mr Jarzembowski. I am not sure that it is very useful to keep changing the agenda. I am not sure that liberalisation is the only basis for integrating the railways of the European Union. Indeed, I believe the opposite is the case. Clearly, it is important to ensure trains can travel freely across all Member States. In my view, however, many other conditions still remain to be met for railways to regain their rightful status and be able to compete with road transport. I am not sure we should address the issue of passenger transport prematurely. We must not adopt a blinkered approach. In my opinion, there is no point in setting a date without being fully aware of what is involved, particularly on the economic front. I fear we may be drawn inexorably towards a collision of all the risks. The nearer the elections draw, the greater are the opportunities for the Council to diminish certain positions. I regret this but we shall move together in that direction, Georg, because we all accepted that this is a rail package. Commissioner, I would like to finish by saying that we attach great importance to the budgetary aspect. I am concerned that the directive on European tax discs falls short of the ambitions of the White Paper. It will allow national taxation policies to be implemented, which is likely to result in many contradictions concerning tax deductions and the allocation of these funds. I would have preferred a Swiss-style system for the European Union. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I should first like to call to mind with sorrow and not a little horror all those whose deaths were associated with the health crisis which so cruelly affected the older generation in our country, France, but also in other countries. I believe that they have to be our prime concern. I shall, however, be speaking mainly about the problems of forest fires. Every year, unfortunately, we are accustomed to expressing our sympathies: this was the case last year with the floods in central Europe and this year it is the same with the fires. We usually find the appropriate words and our sincerity is not in doubt, but very often we feel powerless to come up with an adequate response at European level. Moreover, for a long time words were all we had until, following debates that crossed all political divides and on your initiative, Commissioner – and I congratulate you on this – we are setting up this Solidarity Fund, which today meets a widely felt commitment, that is to ensure that the European Union is as close as possible to its people, in particular when they are in great distress. You have reported on how this new instrument is being used. I believe that it is doing a great deal of good. It is alleviating the effects of serious crises, but strangely, by a bizarre twist of history, we are in the process of reliving the same situation with forest fires. We used to have a specific policy, a specific instrument and a specific budget. This was mentioned by Mrs Ferrer and it is not old; it dates from 1992. It was a European regulation, directly accessible to all foresters or public authorities that owned forests, enabling them to invest as a preventive measure – because as you said, Commissioner, prevention is better than cure – in specialised fire-fighting equipment: firebreaks, water supply points, access tracks and so on. In fact we saw fit to abolish this regulation at the beginning of the year. The regulation had a budget of EUR 52 million from 1992 to 1997 and EUR 77 million from 1997 to 2002. Today another regulation is being proposed to us which serves an entirely different purpose and which does not mention or budget for protecting forests against fire, and that is 'Forest Focus', with a budget of EUR 41 million. If we were to continue down this road, the conclusion people would draw would be that in 2003, a catastrophic year in terms of fire, the European Union took the decision to abandon its policy of forest-fire protection. I believe that we should spare ourselves the public ridicule and the public rejection. Commissioner, there are quite a number of us here, on all of the benches, who consider that EUR 60 million is a high price to pay to damage Europe's image if, on the day when a disaster of this magnitude were unfolding, we were to abandon a tool which is a preventative tool, which works, which people are happy with, and which foresters the length and breadth of Europe are calling for. I would therefore ask you to repeat the strange acrobatics that we performed on the Solidarity Fund in the face of very strong opposition. It took the floods in Germany for people finally to recognise the need for a Solidarity Fund. It will perhaps have taken the tragic fires in Portugal for us to return, as I hope we will, to this regulation on protecting forests against fire, which has done us good service and which to abandon would, it seems to me today, send out a very bad signal. –  Mr President, first of all I should like to thank all the Members who supported the rapporteur in his work in presenting these two reports which are, I believe, absolutely crucial to the future of the railways. What is the subject matter? The first report analyses the application of the 1996 Directive on the interoperability of the high-speed rail system, drawing the lessons of this for the future. Next, and this is the substance of the second report, we must discuss and vote on a proposed directive on the interoperability of the trans-European conventional rail system. Ladies and gentlemen, we must appreciate the full importance of this subject. There is today an unacceptable contradiction between what is said in speeches and the reality of European transport systems. As might have been expected, the creation of the internal market has, logically, considerably developed the trade in goods and the mobility of persons within the Union, which have shown an increase of 21% and 15% respectively between 1990 and 1997. The bulk of the traffic from this explosive growth in internal mobility, which is expected to be consolidated in the next few decades, has been acquired by road systems and, secondarily, maritime cabotage via the North Sea. At a time when we have right here, in most of the countries of the Union, a rail network and technology unparalleled in the world, with a recent study evaluating the external costs of road transport in terms of public health, infrastructure and pollution at some EUR 480 billion, even though the objective of sustainable mobility and respect for quality of life are now shared by all Europeans, it can be noted that rail has only an 8.6% market share for freight, and 5.8% for passenger transport. There is more than one explanation for this paradox: rail’s reduced level of competitiveness due to a social differential in relation to the road sector, but also the distortions of competition engendered by the considerable external costs of road transport, the priority which most major railway companies in recent years have given exclusively to prestigious high-speed passenger transport, but also excessive national characteristics in terms of railway traditions, techniques and protocols, thereby compromising the flow of continental rail traffic. Today, the situation of the European transport network situation is simple to the point of caricature: there is only one common area in transport and that is the road network. There is no longer any single airspace or European maritime area, nor especially a continuous railway area within the countries of the Union. The issue at stake in railway interoperability is, of course, doing away with the technical frontiers that have been inherited from the national railway structures set in place gradually since the nineteenth century. Today, the Europe of the Fifteen has no less than sixteen electric signalling systems, six electrical voltages, five track gauges and several equipment and therefore infrastructure gauges. Of course, the new high-speed train infrastructures offer a prime area for the introduction of interoperability, since they are new or recent networks devoted to very similar technology.  Directive 96/48 was adopted for this purpose. The report on its application, four years on, referred to Parliament to express an opinion, delivers contrasting results, but results that are in the end more positive than they may seem. In the first place, significant delay is observed in the transposition of laws and regulations since, to date, only two countries have transposed it and the first technical specifications for interoperability are on the point of being completed and published. The conclusion is therefore that the time limits for transposition and publication must be more stringent in future.  This delay in transposing into law has not, however, hindered the development of interoperable cross-border lines, although Thalys is the only example of true interoperability, more so than even Eurostar, despite its attempts to solve the gauge problem. These two international lines have established a precedent which can serve as a model for future developments. More than that, however, in anticipation of tangible results in future, the directive on the interoperability of high-speed routes has primarily made it possible to define and iron out working methods. For the first time, the railway industry, rail companies and infrastructure managers have started up a joint project to define the technical specifications for interoperability. They have worked on the basis of the most general studies by the International Union of Railways. Within the European Association for Railway Interoperability (EARI) they have set up a working group which now has methods and experience available for transposition to conventional systems. Finally, the Committee established by Article 21, bringing together representatives of the Member States and the Commission, enables political and technical monitoring of interoperability projects and intervention at the discretion of states to direct such projects. In other words, while the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism felt bound to remind the Member States of their obligations in terms of time limits and transposition, it must be admitted that the high-speed systems have provided a first-rate testing ground for the vast worksite of interoperability. In this respect, we have to bear in mind that the network and the conventional stock present problems for harmonisation that are formidable in other ways, due to the national and historical characteristics of networks, the great diversity of the stock, and the considerable extent of the networks. It must be made quite clear at this point that there is no question of insisting that rail companies and infrastructure managers immediately proceed to replace their equipment comprehensively. This is totally out of reach, economically. In the first place, if the goal is to achieve interoperability, this must entail using the fastest and least costly means to achieve decisive progress. In this respect, interoperability may be achieved by methods other than the harmonisation of equipment, since it is possible to adapt equipment to operate in different configurations, following the example of the quadruple-system locomotives. This is a proposal for a pragmatic and realistic approach which would not detract from railways’ competitiveness in relation to other modes of transport by imposing additional costs. The key principles of this proposed directive are as follows: restriction of the geographical area covered by conventional system interoperability to the trans-European network as defined by the 1996 European Parliament and Council Decision; a policy of gradual convergence rather than systematic renewal, taking the form of phasing in priorities and interoperability, establishing a hierarchy for subsystems to enable the fastest and cheapest access, with priority only to new investment for creating, extending, renewing, maintaining and operating systems; establishing a hierarchy of objectives, distinguishing across-the-board objectives to be included in all standards: safety, reliability, health, environmental protection and technical compatibility; the objectives inherent in each technical subsystem: infrastructure, energy, rolling stock, etc.; the separation of the technical task of framing the TSIs assigned to a joint representative body, from the standardisation work entrusted to the European standards institutes, and the inspection and certification entrusted to notified bodies; a policy of user consultation, as suggested by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism which cannot be envisaged, ladies and gentlemen, without concomitant consultation of staff representatives, the subject of an amendment that we shall be discussing tomorrow; finally, ongoing monitoring of these projects by the Member States and the Commission through the Committee established under Article 21, implemented by the high-speed directive, enabling states to request exemptions, to include special cases in the technical specifications for purely historic or regional networks, as well as certain types of equipment originating from third countries, and also instruments for authorising commissioning operations notified by Member States to the Commission. In other words, there are safety valves for countries with a high level of special characteristics, and, within the institutions stipulated by the directive, they still have the opportunity to argue the case for these special characteristics and to have them included in the studies and in the TSI publications. Finally, during the transition period, it is important to prevent the networks from growing further apart. To this end, new investments, between now and the publication of the TSIs, shall have to comply with authorised technical references. A Union rolling-stock register will be set up, making it possible to identify the rolling stock, its renewal and ageing, in the same way that this is still carried out, albeit imperfectly, for the maritime fleet. Furthermore, we have to look to the future and, therefore, both the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy have proposed involving candidate country representatives in the projects at this early stage, so that they can anticipate this future . Similarly, and this is a recommendation that we make, we should already be planning conditions of interoperability between the various modes of transport, in accordance with our general objective of developing intermodal interoperability. It would, of course, be presumptuous to expect everything to be achieved by this directive and the long-term upgrading work it requires from railway operators. Quite clearly Europe is proposing to undertake a long-term and very large-scale project throughout its vast railway network. It cannot single-handedly solve the problem of distortions of competition or of network access or charges which would represent crucial progress towards a new golden age of rail in Europe. All the same, the technical interoperability of our old national networks is indeed an essential condition for the recovery of rail, which this balanced, reasonable and flexible text should make possible to achieve in gradual phases under acceptable economic and social conditions. To the many of you who contributed to this, let me reiterate my gratitude and my appreciation. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to make three comments on the occasion of this extremely important debate. My first comment is to say that, first of all, we should see to it that the European legislator stops berating itself on this matter. It has been 18 months since the  sank, an event marked by commotion, emotion and by ensuing controversy. It is easier to hurl abuse and to argue than to legislate, and I believe that the length of time waited, at the end of which six texts have been proposed, and these are six extremely important contributions to implement a legal basis for maritime safety in Europe, which did not previously exist, is normal. I also believe that Parliament and the Commission must be congratulated for the work that they have done – the Commission for having proposed six texts and Parliament for having examined them, thanks to the rapporteurs, in record time. To do otherwise, in my view, would have been to deceive the public, in other words, to lead the public to believe that it was possible to work much more quickly. My second comment relates to the content. I believe that, with both the and  packages, today we have, or very nearly have, a fairly solid legal basis, and we have created a European maritime area, or the beginnings of a European maritime area from scratch and within, essentially, 18 months, with the constraints that are all too familiar to you, which are, in particular, the constraints of our agreements at the IMO. We have made much progress, particularly with regard to risk prevention, or safety, in other words, as regards the effectiveness of monitoring and as regards legal and financial liability. I, like many, believe that the European Union must legislate in order to be more powerful within the International Maritime Organisation. As for the future, and I would like to mention two cases here, I believe that there are two important aspects of safety which have not been dealt with. The first aspect is the emptying of tanks. I think that it is absolutely essential that the EU legislate and pass tough legislation on the practice of emptying tanks, which is collectively more damaging as far as the environment is concerned, as you know, than the accidents that we have witnessed. In this respect, there is a gap in the legislation, which must be filled. The second aspect is that, like many, I am astonished that rivers are not covered by any safety regulations. A large proportion of today’s traffic, particularly in northern Europe, uses the rivers. This puts people living in the vicinity at risk, and we should not wait for a disaster to happen to take legislative measures on traffic using inland ports. . –  Mr President, I apologise for my late arrival. I thought that I was scheduled to speak later, but Mrs Peijs has been extremely professional and I thank her and I welcome the support she has given. This was an extremely difficult report, a subject already very familiar to all the members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, given that it has already failed on two previous occasions. We are faced with differences of opinion that are certainly not run-of-the-mill. They are more to do with geographical than political issues, between peripheral countries that wish to transport, and central and transit countries that wish to ban transport. For some time, I feared that we were gravitating towards a contradictory consensus, where everyone would reject this directive: some because they wish to have freedom of movement, others because they wish to have the freedom to impose a ban. I think that we have finally achieved – after many years of work and thanks to a proposal by the Commission, which is already a compromise – a good balance. The only issue to be resolved between us, between those Members who wish to reject this draft directive and the others, is to establish whether we should introduce legislation in this area. I personally believe that we should. The current situation is totally anarchical, which creates unexpected difficulties virtually everywhere in each country and particularly at borders. The dates for the ban only apply in seven out of nine countries: these are not co-ordinated, they give rise to illegal parking on motorways, and even sometimes in motorway service area car parks. As a result, lorry drivers are very often away from home because of difficulties in scheduling their journeys and, lastly, the dates make it very difficult for hauliers and the transport economy to organise the logistics chain. In my view, this legislation is valid from all viewpoints. First of all, because I believe that we have the necessary legal bases. It would be extremely paradoxical for European road transport, which was Europe’s first transport sector to become established, now to return to being auxiliary. The European Parliament would be sending out entirely the wrong message if it said, at the end of the day, the title relating to Transport in the EC Treaty does not apply to road transport. How then could we dictate that, in the future, it will apply to rail, to the maritime sector and to all the other sectors? Personally speaking, I feel it is very important for a Europe of transport to be implemented and that it leads us towards a policy which was also alluded to in the White Paper, and I think that this is a good reason. There is, however, another, even more important reason: we currently have no legal certainty as far as bans on movement at weekends are concerned and the countries – and I say this to those who wish to reject the proposal – which would like to strengthen this proposal unilaterally would expose themselves to legal proceedings and to possible appeals based solely on the principles of the freedom of movement and non-discrimination and which would most probably pose a threat to a number of existing bans, as well as to the regulation that is commonly known as the ‘strawberry regulation’ of 1998, which has recently been imposed on France in order to allow lorries to travel through the Mont Blanc tunnel. I therefore believe that this will guarantee security for all countries that have introduced bans. Furthermore, I would reiterate that the proposal by the Commission provides a legal basis for what are currently the most stringent bans, namely those in Austria and Germany, and which ensures that the other countries can choose whether to conform to them. The proposal is, in fact, to introduce bans similar to those in Germany and Austria with specific or not so crucial derogations, an exemption scheme in other words, and I will be giving my personal support to Mrs Peijs in calling for the introduction of an exemption for fresh flowers and horticultural products, as I believe that these are products that are difficult to keep fresh. In short, by imposing bans on the movement of HGVs at the weekend, we are being extremely flexible as well as providing reassurance. I live in a region where there is heavy HGV traffic, and I cannot imagine meeting my constituents to explain that the European Parliament does not wish to ban HGV traffic at weekends, which would of course be huge step backwards. I welcome the fact that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has finally managed to find a . Tomorrow, we must examine the 21 amendments, which were adopted in committee, and the 18 new amendments. I do not think that we should alter the balance of the text too greatly and I myself will call for the amendments tabled by the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities to be rejected, namely Amendments Nos 30, 28 and 31, which ultimately propose to return to the Commission’s draft text that was rejected in 1998 and which specified “Sundays only” – this is too little. Secondly, I will propose that we reject Amendments Nos 22 and 23 as well, which were tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party and which, conversely, and this is perfectly legitimate, would result in the Commission acquiring greater powers than anticipated in the text. Lastly, I agree with Mrs Peijs that some amendments distort the text and that we must not therefore venture down that path. – () Mr President, I must express major reservations with regard to the Atkins report as it bears the stamp of commercial interests concealed behind the best of intentions. In actual fact, the airlines would like the air traffic control sector to be completely liberalised, not so much for reasons of safety, interoperability or reducing delays as to be able to access a market of air traffic control services that would enable the more powerful among them to purchase more expensive, secure slots and leave the problem of delays to other airlines and private aviation. Under cover of a single sky, such liberalisation would actually offer us a multispeed sky. I have no other way of explaining the witch hunt undertaken in this report with regard to civil air traffic control alone. We all know that this only represents 30% of delays, which admittedly are worth combating, but which essentially depend on military constraints. This is a political problem that depends first and foremost on politicians. We all know that the considerable increase in air traffic is the main underlying cause of overcrowded and saturated skies. We all know that the number of runways and landing platforms would have to be reduced in order to have any chance of a break, a simple break in the saturation. Finally, in my country, the airlines have chosen to set up shuttles that send a dozen low-capacity aircraft from each provincial French town every morning between 6.00 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. to Paris alone. Is it the fault of air traffic control if they refuse to allow all these flights to land simultaneously in Paris? These are the fundamental causes of air delays. Naturally, the single sky must be set up through a reformed Eurocontrol and harmonised control services at European level. However, personally I cannot imagine collective safety services that are dictated by profit alone, controlled by shareholders. In addition, I cannot imagine tomorrow’s single European sky becoming an sky shared unfairly between airlines. Commissioner, I hope that, in preparing the future directive on the single sky, the Commission will be able to handle this matter by taking a calmer and more impartial overall view. Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Bradbourn, I would first of all like to welcome the ambitions of this trans-European network programme. It is necessary for employment and growth across the continent, for solidarity between the countries of the EU, in particular the new members, and for supporting the internal market. I will make a few comments on the text before us. The first comment concerns the motorways of the sea, on which I take the opposite position to Mr Bradbourn and Mr Jarzembowski. I think that they are spatial planning tools. They are transport policy tools. If they were only market tools, the motorways of the sea would not become a reality, because they would not be able to compete with roads and would be reduced, at best, to motorways of the sea between Antwerp, Rotterdam and Hamburg, which would be woefully insufficient for relieving the majority of European traffic. I think that they need public support, because they are public policy tools and not just market tools. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the need for the European Parliament to have as much involvement as possible with the latest revisions and to be kept informed, if possible, of their implementation. We know that Quick Start exists, not legally, but actually. I think it would be reasonable for Parliament to be kept regularly informed, as the projects that it undertakes are implemented. Finally, on the subject of funding, you said yourself, Commissioner, that you needed EUR 4.8 billion per year in order to set this particularly ambitious programme in motion. Unfortunately, I now have the impression that we are being given the luxury of choosing a spending programme without the restriction of finding income. I would like to say that Parliament will support you, in the Council, to help you ensure that this programme does not exist solely on paper and that it does not end up with the Essen syndrome, in other words that it is not just something that is talked about but has no future. –  Commissioner, I must reiterate the position of the French socialists on this document. Consideration of this report began in confusion during the first reading. We are opposed to it for three main reasons. Firstly, we believe that, if we want to purse the aim of sustainable mobility as part of our policy on ports as proposed in the White Paper, the problem of competition in ports is certainly not the most appropriate or timely way of approaching the issue. At stake are problems concerning the development of different areas, the North-South balance and congestion problems in the Pas-de-Calais area, in particular. It seems to us that the Commission has failed to respond to this issue and is displaying a haste to liberalise port services which we feel will have no real impact. Secondly, although we are in favour of competition, it must have an equitable basis. The Commissioner said a few moments ago that there is a one to three ratio between the prices charged by different European ports. While this is probably true, the main explanation lies in the radically different social conditions in different countries. Without directives on social issues, collective agreements and harmonised statutes, what has happened to road transport for example, will also happen to ports. In other words, competition will not be fair but will entail a levelling-down of social conditions. The dock workers understand well that we are not implementing competition but a terrible mechanism to reduce prices and salaries. Thirdly, we are completely opposed to the way the concept of self-handling has been introduced. Why are we opposed to this? Mr Hatzidakis wondered why we should not liberalise everything now that we have liberalised one sector. He is fully aware that the greatest amount of social malpractice probably takes place in the maritime sector. We fear that self-handling would simply be an excuse for significant social dumping. We would like to pose the following questions. How can we guarantee that national social standards will be complied with when they are all different? Who will ensure compliance with social standards? How can we ensure that multinational crews, comprising Philippinos and Malaysians, for example, respect social standards? How can we ensure fair competition with the port’s dock workers? This is why we propose the common position be rejected. This is doubtless also why the dock workers are demonstrating their discontent. . –  As always, European integration is proceeding by a series of tests and necessary measures. The essential test which it has inflicted upon itself for the next few years, and which is also a historical imperative, is, of course, the task of opting to reconcile the geography of the continent with its history, and to carry on with the enlargement which will now enable democratisation and considerable economic reforms to take place in the Central and Eastern European Countries. The Treaty of Nice, which the Méndez de Vigo report tackles and comments on with great honesty and rigour, is first of all a substantial political choice by a Europe which is finally reunited on the question of its founding values of democracy, freedom, solidarity and culture. This is a considerable political ambition for our future, which on its own would justify the ratification of the Treaty of Nice, though it has to be admitted that the Treaty has not provided us with the institutional reforms to enable us to exercise, democratically and consistently, a European political power which is held by at least twenty-seven countries. The difficulty in reaching agreement at Nice, even among fifteen countries, on the future institutions of the Union, is proof, if proof were needed, of the limitations of the inter-governmental approach in a Union consisting of an even greater number of Member States. This is why I welcome the fact that our rapporteur is proposing to create a convention, based on the convention which drew up the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in order to make preliminary plans for and to propose to a future IGC a Constitution for the Europe of the future. This step, let us not deny it, will constitute a historic moment in European integration, and its task will be to link our peoples and their future in a way which will be irreversible. This is why a democratic and public debate, a debate which is open to all our peoples, must precede this pre-constitutional stage, so as to remove any ambiguities about the kind of Europe that we want to build together. Is it to be a political Europe or a business Europe? Is it to be a powerful Europe or a club of countries paralysed by the rule of consensus? The public debate decided on at Nice, and the convention method which we have just affirmed here, are the conditions for this imperative, which is to render more democratic the debate on Europe and what is at stake in Europe. . – Ladies and gentlemen, let me firstly thank our rapporteur and all the Members for the speed with which the European Parliament has worked on the proposal concerning the implementation of a European Aviation Safety Agency. I think that it is not totally out of place to say this, and that it practically amounts to the launch of an appeal to the Council and the Commission, to make sure that the proposal comes to fruition as quickly as possible, for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has, naturally, first ascertained the industrial interest in such an agency. As you already know, we have an urgent need for the equivalent of the American Federal Aviation Administration if we want the Airbus standard to be commercially viable at international level, in particular the new A 380 programme. The Committee on Industry has been very sensitive to these issues. It has not dramatically increased the number of amendments and has made sure that we can proceed as fast as possible towards the effective creation of this tool that the European aeronautical industry has been waiting for with bated breath in the great international competition which places it, fairly regularly and not without controversy, face to face with its great American rival. This is why we are satisfied with the proposal, in the hope that the Council will prove to be generous enough in the assessment of the amendments that are presented to it. My second important point concerns the problem of political control. We think that the concept of safety is formulated by specialists and technicians, but politics cannot be pushed to the sidelines. With each of the large-scale events and accidents that have recently taken place, for example with Concorde or the Mont-Blanc tunnel, we have requested answers from the public authorities. It is therefore necessary that this new agency be a technical tool for standardisation and certification primarily fed from the work of experts and manufacturers, but it should also be politically controlled. This is the reason for which we have put forward amendments requesting that the executive director of such an agency, or even the agency itself, can make itself available to Parliament or, at the very least, be heard by Parliament. There are those who even hope that it should have parliamentary representatives on the administrative board, for the administrative board is a body that is not technical but political in nature. Finally, we are hoping that, in the committees of experts, the greatest cooperation will be open to all parties concerned, notably in relation to the creation of the “single sky” or problems relating to air control. We think that this should be carried out in consultation with both sides of industry and workers’ representatives, otherwise we will be creating insurmountable obstacles to the objectives we are pursuing. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are the main conclusions of the Committee on Industry. Mr President, Commissioner, we shall of course be voting in favour of this regulation. We believe that we have come up with a more or less balanced text, compared with an initial proposal which seemed to us to contain a certain number of risks. It is clear that passengers’ rights are sacred. All too often the airlines treat them very lightly, whether it is a matter of looking after their passengers or of providing them with information. It is also clear that the practice of overbooking has in many cases revealed its limitations and proved that it is used as a commercial tool. We have even seen cases where planes did not take off because they were not full, which is absolutely inadmissible for someone who has signed a sale or purchase contract as part of the process of obtaining a ticket. I believe that the text we have come up with is balanced overall. On the one hand, it tries to ensure that the practice of overbooking does not constitute a purely commercial practice but is restricted to a flexibility practice. We are aware that overbooking will never be reduced to zero by the airlines, because that is how they manage imponderables. There are some of us here in this House who often travel by air, and many of us benefit from overbooking practices when we arrive late or when things do not go according to plan and we have trouble getting to the airport. I do not think, therefore, that we ought to make a big issue of it. Moreover, the compensation scheme must be fair and equitable, and it must not be too complicated if we are to avoid endless disputes, and above all it should not be an incentive to airlines to take risks with safety. We must not go too far: we must not end up with a situation in which airlines are determined to take off at any price, even if there is a technical incident, because it would otherwise cost them too much to provide compensation for passengers. I hope that we have achieved this sort of balance in this report. I hope so but I am not altogether sure. Nevertheless, we shall be giving it our support. – Mr President, Commissioner, it was very difficult to assess this text as its focus has shifted slightly. We were supposed to address the issue of competition in ports and we are now being presented with a text on competition between ports. I do not know what will happen tomorrow, but I am sure there will be some confusion. In passing, I regret that the mooring service providers’ lot is not the same as the pilots’. I do not see why we would maintain competition for mooring service providers while excluding pilots. These professions are fairly similar. With regard to competition between ports, I feel that transparency is a good thing, but I would warn you against going straight from that to decreeing competition between ports without closer analysis, for ports are first and foremost tools for regional development. They do not have the same nautical qualities. Moreover, if we were to increase competition, your entire sustainable mobility policy would fall through. I actually think that, in years to come, we will have to help the southern ports and the ports on the Atlantic coast take over from the over concentrated mass of North Sea ports. Otherwise, we will be going against both the Erika-Maritime Safety package and our desire to remove lorries from the major transit countries. In my opinion, the Commission will actually have to present us with specific proposals on State aid to ports focusing on regional development rather than just competition between products. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European transport situation can be summed up using several pertinent figures. Between 1990 and 1997 the volume of transport of goods increased by 21% whilst over the same period the proportion of freight transported by rail dropped by 7%. During the same period, passenger transport increased by 15% and rail transport by only 3%. In terms of both freight and passenger transport European integration has been a considerable factor of mobility, but the roads have been the major beneficiaries of this particularly, but not exclusively, due to the fact that they have been frontier free since the beginning of the 1990s. European railways therefore need to open up urgently and without fear. Their future lies largely in their own hands, however, it is also our job to give them every opportunity to achieve their aims.  Railway workers must rise to the challenge of opening up international networks to trains from all countries in the European Union. The decision taken by the fifteen Ministers for Transport in December 1999 to set plans in motion for the creation of a Trans-European Freight Network that represents 94% of the international freight transport came as a direct response to this challenge. It is entirely logical to adapt national rail legislation to this new system that lays down rules governing access, pricing policy and standard and consistent management practices within the European Union. The Swoboda report contains commendable proposals regarding the need to adapt legislation to the various national situations. On the other hand, it is wholly unacceptable and, what is more, contradicts Parliament’s first reading, for us to take advantage of this second reading – as the Jarzembowski report suggests – to announce measures to open up all networks to competition and others designed for the widespread privatisation of such networks at national and local level, as that stems from a dogma, an untested belief in the superiority of a market model that has clearly demonstrated its limitations in the United Kingdom. Several moments ago, I stated that the future of rail transport also depended on us, and I should also like to point out the fact that the dogmatic approach that we appear to have adopted in this matter threatens its very success. Everyone here is aware that rail integration in Europe cannot be reduced to a theological debate on the comparative merits of controlled liberalisation and uncontrolled privatisation. Railways, which only receive 25% of the investment allocated to transport infrastructure in Europe, as opposed to the 65% allocated to roads, are in need of substantial investment in order to enhance interoperability, reduce bottlenecks, extend networks and integrated transport systems, etc. The United Kingdom has demonstrated to what extent privatisation can represent a step backwards. This is why we believe that our work should not threaten the delicate balance of the Council’s common position. –  Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Langenhagen on her excellent work, which also received a notably favourable vote in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. I hope that the same will happen tomorrow when the House votes on the report, since this is a particularly important, even historic text for the European Union. The European Union is a major power. Europe is a major player in the aviation and space industries, but the European Union does not have aviation and space power, since it has never had a policy in this area until now and, as Mrs Langenhagen said, GALILEO is a historic beginning for us, our first Community programme. The GALILEO programme is all the more important because it guarantees that the high technology and the activity of our industries will be maintained in the future, since 150 000 jobs will be created. GALILEO represents the political independence of the European Union, since, as you are aware, we had no frequency access during the Kosovo war due to the American GPS system, and as things stand at the moment, we cannot count on the American system being completely reliable in the coming years. I therefore believe that it is crucial that we consider the success of GALILEO as vital in ensuring the EU’s credibility over the next few years in an area where competition in the aviation and space industries is increasingly marked, particularly when faced with new competition, for instance from China or Japan. We are also concerned about how this operation is funded, about the delays in its implementation and that it has been postponed on numerous occasions. Let us be clear about one thing – in the space industry, as in all the other transport industries, nothing can be achieved without State funding and without a boost from the government, whether this is direct State funding or so-called co-funding, along the lines of the American model, where the military sector funds the civilian. We must be aware of this situation. With regard to infrastructure, it is very difficult to find private sector investment, therefore we must be prepared, the Commission is not only responsible for this, Member States are responsible as well. The Council must certainly be made aware of this. This is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists did not want to increase the number of obstacles. We shall not vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left – Nordic Green Left or the amendment by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party on the funding method, whereby the GALILEO programme must be halted if private sector investment is not sufficient. This is because we believe GALILEO is a crucial programme for the future of the European Union and for the future of European space policy. . –  I am in total agreement with the Habitats Directive and its objectives in terms of protecting the endangered outstanding natural heritage of the countries of the European Union. This heritage and its biological and genetic diversity are the planet’s most precious assets and we must indeed ensure that they are protected, reproduced and handed down to future generations. Even so, I voted against the Sjöstedt report for two crucial reasons. Firstly, it is unacceptable to blackmail European appropriations allocated to our countries by making them conditional, in article 11, upon compliance with the Habitats Directive as it stands. If it were simply a matter of ensuring that European funds are not used to finance projects destroying these outstanding ecosystems, then I should have endorsed the resolution and voted in favour of it, but it is unacceptable and unprecedented to make a European Union policy conditional upon compliance with another and that social conditions should be subject, for example, to environmental conditions. My second reason is that the resolution does not clarify the concept of “disturbance” and the legal discussion, which is so deliberately vague that legal battles could be revived, which might lead to bans on traditional hunts where these are authorised under the Birds Directive and the subsidiary law in the states. It is precisely because the European Union deliberately maintains this ambiguity that some countries experience problems in issuing their “Nature 2000” lists and in implementing the Habitats Directive calmly, without resistance on the part of the farmers in those countries, even though everyone acknowledges the noble nature of the objectives of the directive. –  Ladies and gentlemen, none of us must forget what has taken place. It is true that there was a joint decision by the Council and Parliament seeking to discontinue emergency lines. It is also true that there is a lot of European money around. Commissioner Barnier has pointed out that oyster farming and agriculture would be eligible under Article 30 of the regulation concerning rural development, forestry would be eligible under Article 33, companies would be eligible under exemptions from the competition law stated in Article 87(2) of the Treaty and public facilities would be eligible under the Structural Funds. It is nevertheless the case that not a penny more than what was allocated before the storm will now be freed up to demonstrate practical, active solidarity. It is nothing more than the States playing at taking from Peter in order to give to Paul. This is inadequate, and I am personally delighted that Mr Barnier has stated an idea close to my heart and which, moreover, I expressed when I told the press in Bordeaux what I am hoping for, and that is the establishment of a reinforced policy of European civil security.  If the European citizenship that we all want to see is to come into being, if the mandate that our President, Mrs Fontaine has staked on a closer relationship between the Union and Europe’s citizens is to be effective, our citizens must be able to feel that we are acting with some urgency. I therefore believe that a European civil protection force, real civil relief blue helmets, who would go to areas in difficulty within the Union, as we currently have no emergency procedure, but also outside the Union if needs be, in Venezuela or anywhere else, is something that we should hope to see. I would like to tell Commissioner Barnier that in me he has an active ally for this idea which strikes me as noble and truly European in spirit. –  Mr President, first of all I should like to welcome the Commissioner, while at the same time, without wishing to give offence to her, regretting the fact that Mr Monti or Mr Bolkestein is not facing me across the Chamber, because they are of course the ones most directly concerned with this question. We have discovered, in effect, that in the Commission’s work programme for 2003, it was intending to submit a directive on postal services which would seek to separate legally, in other words to turn into subsidiaries, the commercial activities on the one hand and the public-service activities on the other, without consulting Parliament or the Council, in other words by using the procedure laid down in Article 86(3) of the Treaties. This method of procedure therefore amounts to breaking away from what has always been the legal basis for discussions about postal services within the Union, in other words Article 95, which is essentially a codecision procedure and therefore makes any decision on the matter the subject of a democratic debate. If this assumption were to prove to be true, it would of course be a recourse to force which we would be unable to accept. We have examined several postal directives which all form part of the gradual process of opening up the market, and we do not see any reason for resorting to force in this way, which I repeat would be intolerable. I should like to ask you, Commissioner, whether the Commission intends to confirm this assumption, in other words to change the legal basis so as to avoid any democratic debate before the Member States and before the representatives of the people. Secondly, I should like to know what the content of this draft is, since you have given us, very precisely, during this debate, the opportunity to do so. In fact, since we know that the area concerned will gradually disappear between now and 2009, we do not see how it could be the subject of subsidiary creation or legal separation. Finally, we should like to know the motivation behind this draft text which at the moment seems to us to be extremely confused. It is not possible to ignore, today, the fortuitous coincidence of the second reading of this proposed directive against maritime pollution with the topical news of the tragic wreck of the . Admittedly, this text does not discuss accidental pollution, but we know full well that the implications of illegal degassing at sea are no less serious, even if it is a more insidious phenomenon. In the last week of February, 39 instances of illegal degassing were identified in the vicinity of the wreck of the  alone. Such practices are intolerable, but they are difficult to monitor, particularly at night or in foggy weather. The proposed directive and the amendment proposing to establish a standard charging scheme for vessels in ports, in all European ports, in order to finance the processing of shipboard waste, tackle the problem on two fronts: they force the ports to set up the facilities and the organisation to handle the shipboard operational waste, either under direct state control or by subcontracting to specialised competent operators, and, more importantly, they deter vessels from evading their obligation to dispose of waste since they will have to pay the price in any case. It is, however, essential to ensure that, as far as possible, this universal charge is shared across the board and is supported by national or European financial arrangements to enable smaller ports to gain access to waste processing services without their economic viability and thus their continuity suffering unduly. Subject to this condition, then, what this directive proposes is Europe’s initial model response to the legitimate feeling aroused due to the pollution caused by the wreck of the . To some extent, it marks the official acknowledgement and establishment of a European maritime area subject to shared regulations. I would like to begin by expressing my delight at the maturity of this Galileo dossier, which will remain one of the great achievements of this legislature and an example of what the Commission and Parliament can do together, to the general incredulity and despite the resistance of many Member States. I believe this work does us all credit and I would like to pay tribute to Mrs Loyola de Palacio. I believe this Galileo is something with a real future for Europe, firstly because of its many potential applications in a large number of services that will benefit our fellow citizens, secondly because it maintains our competence, and especially our independence, in space matters, and lastly because it will provide work for our launchers, which we know are a weak sector in a world where launchers are very exposed to competition. Two problems remain, however, I believe. First, there is the problem of funding for the operational phase. I still do not understand in what way and how the private sector will be able to involve itself in the infrastructure competitively with a GPS that will provide its services free of charge. From this point of view it will therefore either ask for guaranteed resources or it will seek something in return. I think we must be very careful here. I have always thought that infrastructure should be public and that services should be paid for by those that use them. But I will wait and see what the funding plan will be, which I think should be settled as quickly as possible. Then in the matter of international cooperation – and on this point I agree with Mr Cappato to some extent – I think it is good that China is interested, but not at any price. Firstly, let us make sure that China does not demand that satellites be launched by its own launchers at the expense of Ariane, which needs an institutional market, and secondly, let us ensure that China, which is not a democratic state, does not use it for military purposes, which would be contrary to our essential values and in particular the respect for human rights which we know not to be the Chinese Government’s greatest virtue. –  Mr President, I was told I had three minutes' speaking time but no matter. I would like to say briefly, now that another accident has occurred in the St Gotthard tunnel, that I think there is a difference between learning lessons from that accident and exploiting its emotional charge for political ends. If we use the deaths in the St Gotthard tunnel, which, of course, we all deplore, as a pretext for saying that we must not reopen the Mont Blanc tunnel, then we should also close the Fréjus tunnel, the Arlberg tunnel and the Brenner Pass. In fact, we should close every Alpine tunnel that presents the same accident risks. Clearly, that would totally paralyse southern Europe because, quite simply, we no longer have a choice today. As everybody here knows, the railways are not ready either institutionally, technically or economically to take over from the roads. Therefore, it seems to me that we have to take two kinds of measures, short term and long term. In the short term, we must make the tunnels safer and take urgent measures, whether in Mont Blanc, where this has now been done, or in other tunnels, to regulate the traffic, ensure that no hazardous materials are carried through, strengthen the security, safety and intervention systems and speed up the adoption of a European directive on tunnel safety. This is much talked about but it has not yet materialised, so we must put it on the agenda very soon. That aside, like everyone else here I believe that, in the long term, we should quite simply be able to ban, once and for all, heavy goods vehicles in tunnels because they are, in fact, the most dangerous vehicles, but that assumes that alternatives exist, and the Commission has, indeed, presented them in its White Paper. There are other projects too that need to be speeded up, including, in the case of the Alps, the two rail tunnels, the one between Lyon and Turin and the Brenner tunnel; there are similar projects in the Pyrenees, where the traffic situation is even more serious, although this is never mentioned. I believe we must also assume our responsibility here and speak out. For my part, I feel we are still far from doing so. The Commission has produced an excellent White Paper; it is very good at laying down requirements, but it has not as yet paid out enough to enable us to make the transition to rail in the very short term. We therefore need to allocate far, far greater resources to improving rail capacity. Let me finish by saying that public opinion is now concerning itself with transport policy – which is a good thing – and as a result, it is no longer a matter just for the specialists, for the large State bodies. It means we will all be judged by whether we can implement rapid solutions, not just the politicians but also the railwaymen and the hauliers. Let me conclude by saying that I also hope we will not confine ourselves to imposing constraints while rejecting all the solutions. In regard to north-south transport, I think we should also look again at adapting the Rhine-Rhone canal to heavy goods transport. We cannot say that we have to put a stop to road transport while, at the same time, rejecting transport by river and inland waterway which would relieve much of the pressure on the roads. –  Mr President, I welcome this point of order, for foresters and the forestry sector cannot wait for the outcome of these rather irregular debates which can only have one effect today, and that is to send out a message proclaiming that the European Parliament is made up of absentee Members, whereas most of our fellow Members, including those here today, are certainly not relaxing in front of their televisions but are working in the field. The issue is wider than that. In reality, this is nothing more than a feature of the anti-Strasbourg sniping which has developed. Let us be completely clear about this and not try to pretend it is otherwise or to evade the issue.  Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on the forestry sector. As it happens, we already expressed our sympathy, as we are wont to do, in a resolution of 20 January 2000, and requested that the Commission supply us with certain information and undertake to help those of our citizens – and they were numerous – who were in difficulties, for this disaster affected the whole of Europe.  Now, four months later, we are sufficiently removed from events to be able to learn both from what has been done and what has not, and we are expecting a tangible response from the Commission to this question. Did we actually intervene? Did we employ the means available to us? This time, we are not claiming appropriations for exceptional circumstances under the “natural disasters” heading. The sector is simply assessing the extent of its difficulties and the resulting risks – economic risks, security risks, that is to say fire risks, and also risks of non-reforestation, for if it is not possible to remove the wood in the coming weeks, many foresters would prefer to leave them where they are, and then the forestry sector will be in permanent difficulties, and with it the primary processing industry.  Four months on, the purpose of this oral question is therefore, Commissioners, to inform you, first and foremost, that the condition of the forestry sector is critical. In the space of two days, 193 million cubic metres of timber have flooded the market. The first question is that of price control and regulation of the market, since the cost of removing some low-quality species is now more than the market is willing to pay. We are familiar with the regulation of the market in the context of the common agricultural policy. We are not asking you to include timber in that policy, but it appears that Europe could have employed equivalent measures to assist the timber market during this exceptional crisis. It could have temporarily regulated the timber market for a period of several months. The question has been put to you. What action are you going to take?  Secondly, what have you done and what have you achieved with the means available? I refer to the means which allow us to grant exemptions from the competition laws to help exporters, for the cost of transportation of timber which has been exposed to fungal or parasite risk is totally unacceptable, provided that there is a buyer. If we want to support the market, we must support the transportation necessary for export to places further afield. Is the Commission prepared to take steps to do this? To what extent has it implemented Article 87(2) of the Treaty, which allows it to grant exemptions? To what extent, if at all, has it approached the WTO to request it to grant derogations? What has it done to set up means of remedying the natural disasters affecting the forestry sector? These are not virtual instruments. We have rules, such as Article 30 of Regulation 1257/1999. If it has not done so, what action does it intend to take in the forthcoming weeks? The matter is urgent. Finally, I call for the DOCUP development plans to give unequivocal consideration to the forestry sector and the timber industry. Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Commissioner and our rapporteurs for their tenacity on a very important subject. I would simply like to say that, as we saw with the Lake Constance disaster, the Sharm el-Sheikh disaster and those of the  and the , whenever there is an accident people look to Europe. And generally speaking the very people who are against European integration forget they were against it when tragedies happen. I therefore believe that the creation of the single sky bodes well for the future. At any rate, in this integrated European area we ought to do for the sky what we have done for roads and what we are trying to do for shipping and the railways. I believe that in this matter Parliament’s role was quite decisive in getting the general interest and public service nature of air traffic control recognised. Conversely, I think that air traffic control personnel have gained a European dimension that will make them think differently in future and probably play a more active part in the next stages of the single European sky. I am pleased about all that and I think this text is at last integrated and that this evening we have good reason to be pleased with the result we have achieved. Mr President, Commissioner, let me start by saying that my first thought is that I personally am sorry that a European charging mechanism closer to the ambitions set out in the White Paper has not been provided; one that is more universal which would make it possible, in particular, to go so far as to finance the trans-European transport networks from a European source of revenue. From this point of view, we are well short of the ambitions which we set out in the White Paper, and it will no doubt take us a long time to reach this objective. On the other hand, I congratulate Mr Cocilovo on the excellent work that he has done on the basis of this ‘Eurovignette’ Directive, but the basic limitation of this is that it is not a European charging policy, but a regulatory framework for national charging policies. There are, therefore, bound to be differences between countries. It is nevertheless essential to support the guidelines adopted by the Cocilovo report in favour of internalisation of external costs, of cross-financing being extended to all corridors and of its extension to all road networks and not only to trans-European networks, which could give rise to transfers or shifting of traffic. If this is not the case, we shall vote against. . –  Mr President, I would like to thank you for allowing me to speak on the second reading of a report that is extremely important for the future of Europe’s railways and for building the European rail system. The last months, under the leadership of Mrs de Palacio, the Commissioner, will certainly have been crucial for the future of rail transport in Europe. Following the conciliation on the Swoboda and Jarzembowsky reports, the opening up, or liberalisation, call it what you will, of networks is now an accepted fact. We still have to overcome the many instances of technical incompatibility and this is, of course, not the easiest thing to do, since these networks were built according to very distinctive technical and industrial characteristics in every individual country. The aim of the draft directive is precisely to ensure the technical and procedural interoperability of cross-border travel between the various 15 European networks. The current situation is extremely complicated. There are about 15 signalling systems, five or six electrical voltage ratings, different loading gauges and different track gauges, different procedures, different railway cultures, and information systems that are not consistent from one rail company to another, thereby compromising efficient rail travel. Although opening up of the roads was easy, because discontinuities could be eliminated instantly, the opening up of the railway is still coming up against a whole raft of technical obstacles. In 1996, an initial directive was adopted which was easier to implement because it concerned a new network of high-speed trains. This now shows us the way forward in terms of methodology. The method adopted was to lay down “technical specifications for interoperability” for each rail subsystem in conjunction with rail companies, infrastructure managers and manufacturers. Every subsystem is covered by a specification, which is then subdivided to cover the individual components which must also be verified as compatible. We are facing a truly enormous task and we have chosen to adopt a procedure inspired by the high-speed rail project, i.e. a gradual procedure. This task will take so much time that it is important in the short term to make what progress we can, with the minimum cost-benefit ratio. The essence of the method involves selecting and evaluating the costs and the benefits of each step forward in terms of interoperability in order to assess its relative importance and either prioritise it or opt to implement it at a later date. Of course, the areas we really must push forward in the first instance are sharing information, procedures, data communications and all procedures involved in cross-border travel. We shall find out at a later stage, through a gradual convergence process, how to deal on a gradual basis with the problem of making tracks, gauges and rolling stock compatible. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is up to me to thank all the Members of Parliament who were involved in this report, as considerable work was undertaken at first reading. Parliament voted on a total of 46 amendments which had been tabled. Of these 46 amendments, 33 were accepted as they stood – and at this point I must pay tribute to the Council and the mediation by the Commission – and we can say that this vote will, or should, mark the successful completion of a broadly consensual legislative process. The Council and Commission have accepted many amendments and have enabled Parliament to make a significant shift of emphasis in order to consult rail users and staff, to involve the candidate countries in this work from the very outset and also allowed a certain leeway in terms of exemptions, given that some countries had justifiable concerns on this subject. The Council also made considerable contributions to ensure that the new rolling stock provided both safety and access for passengers with reduced mobility. In short, I feel we have today a sufficiently sound text to be implemented fairly quickly, informed by our experience with the high-speed train project and benefiting from the excellent collaboration between the various parliamentary groups within the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism – and I would like to praise all my fellow committee members, from all the groups – as well as collaboration between the Commission, the Council and Parliament. Personally speaking, I am delighted that we have created such an ambitious document so quickly which today really gets the European rail system underway. Commissioner, there are two other crucial issues which will need to be addressed. The first relates to charging, which today remains the major issue in the turnaround from road to rail, and the second relates to funding of infrastructures, such as intermodal flat wagons, which is needed so that we can really make swift progress in this area. –  Mr President, Commissioner, having reached the common position, we must welcome the fact that Parliament’s first democratic expression has led to a situation where the Commission and the Council are upholding some of its proposals, such as the special services, the gradual opening up of the market with a review by Parliament in 2009, and even the keeping of direct mail within the public service sector. We must, however, note that two things are lacking today and we are dealing with one of those rare liberalisation directives which makes no specific mention of them. The first thing is the financing of universal service. As soon as exclusive rights and the reserved sector are opened up and inevitably become smaller, we no longer know how universal postal service will be financed. And this is no small matter. The second point is the conditions of network access. Do we know whether the networks of the French postal system are available to the German postal system and its major competitors and ? This is also one of those rare liberalisation directives which fails to specify this aspect in a detailed manner. I would like to express my regret that the Commission and also Parliament did not want to thoroughly debate these issues. The Commission says it wants transparency across the board and yet, it is refusing to undertake an evaluation of what has been happening, particularly in Sweden and in Holland, where a scaled-down market has registered an increase in prices for the ordinary consumer. The Commission refuses to accept the truth about these costs and the truth is that providing a service to everyone in Greece is not the same thing as providing a service in the Netherlands. In short, they have demonised the debate and pretended that conciliation is a bad thing. I think that we could have seen this debate through to the end in order to achieve a more balanced position. –  Madam President, I should first of all like to pay tribute to all our fellow MEPs who have worked so hard on this matter and, in particular, the rapporteur for the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, Markus Ferber, who has exhibited a most commendable sense of compromise and balance. As we have just been reminded, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has tabled a number of amendments and slight modifications to the Commission’s proposals too. As is well known, there are two conflicting visions here of what are called public services, and I hope that it will be possible to reconcile them one day. According to the first view, public services cannot be truly European unless they are transformed into markets, that is to say unless the private sector is given the infrastructures, know-how and networks patiently acquired sometimes in the public domain and, where postal services are concerned, practically always in the public domain. The second view is that, if postal services are to be opened up to competition, there must be no conflict between traditional and modern practices. It must also take place in a Europe of rights, that is to say a Europe whose citizens, and in particular, those who are in most difficulty, are assured a minimum of what may be considered essential rights. Naturally, the latter view should be taken of postal services for, as has just been seen, the post office is not just an ordinary public service. It is a public service in which the human and social dimensions are very important. It is a public service whose network is sometimes the last civic link with democratic institutions in difficult places such as inner cities. It is also a public service which has a notable territorial aspect to it. For all these reasons, the postal services which are now to be opened to competition and which are to a very large extent already in competition where very many products are concerned and which are themselves subject to competition from new technologies and are faced with new consumer expectations, as we are agreed, cannot be treated as a mere market.  As we have all agreed, it is therefore only right to talk in terms of a universal service, that is to say a service offered to everyone throughout the territory of the European Union. What is unacceptable, however, is for the cost of the service to be identical in every country, given the differences in geography and population density. What might be acceptable for the Netherlands or Malta, that is to say a reserved sector reduced to 50 grammes, may not be practicable where Greece or France is concerned because of the geography of these countries. That is why I, personally, am happy that we have compromised by setting the minimum weight/price limit at 150 grammes. Finally, the universal service should be in a position to develop. There is no reason why the service offered to people should not incorporate all kinds of technical and economic progress, and I believe that, from this point of view, doing away with special services is a step for which no clarification had first been provided. Finally, a new date for liberalisation is unacceptable until a prior assessment has been made. That has been the major misunderstanding in this debate. The Commission ought to have provided us with an impact study of the various phases of liberalisation. It has not done so. It must do so next time without fail. Commissioner, Mr President, first of all I should like to pay my deepest respects to Mrs Sommer, for the quality of the work that we were able to carry out together – thanks to her willingness to listen and also her flexibility on all those occasions where we may have had differences of opinion – which I hope has resulted in our having a very good text even at first reading, a text which I hope will be final. I believe that in the final analysis this directive is very important, on the one hand because its purpose is to make life easier for all those road-transport operators who of course pass through toll stations and who often need to change the system or method of payment, but also because it is a directive which is very much open to the prospects of future technology, in particular as regards the implementation of the Galileo system. We in the PSE Group believe that this directive was initially a little inflexible and very restricting for the motorway-transport sector. In effect, it required that sector to ensure, very rapidly, the interoperability of current microwave systems, in other words to invest very heavily, only to switch very quickly to another system two years later. No doubt it was unacceptable to demand such a double effort from the sector, and I welcome the fact that we were able to agree on Amendment No 48, by Mrs Sommer, which strongly recommends Galileo and advocates waiting for an intermediate report by the Commission in order to determine the conditions under which we shall implement the switch. Nevertheless, we are very keen on the satellite positioning system and we believe that that is where the future lies, not only for tolls, but for a multitude of other services. Secondly, we believe that we have given preference to the interoperability of systems, in other words most of the amendments that we have tabled, whether it is Amendment No 11 submitted by us or Amendment No 46 submitted by Mrs Sommer, are essentially aimed, not necessarily at having a unified system, but at making systems interoperable, and we believe that in the short term that is what should be required. In other words, we also have to ensure that certain microwave systems can be interoperable with GPM/GPRS technology. We have also reviewed the timetable. I think that the timetable proposed by the Commission was quite simply unrealistic, because it did not take into account the time needed for the legislative work and the fact that we were unable to require that the European electronic toll system be brought into line so rapidly, that is, by 1 January 2005. Finally, as far as the PSE Group is concerned, we have proposed, at the request of the City of London – which does not seem to be particularly Socialist – which is following this debate closely, to restrict the scope slightly and to make provision for a transitional phase for local toll systems. London, in fact, has just implemented its own system. It is a very promising experiment and I do not think that we ought to restrict it too much. By contrast, we are fiercely – that is no doubt too strong a word – opposed to the amendments tabled by our Italian fellow Members, namely Amendments Nos 19, 23, 26, 27 and 29, which aim to propose a system of contractual rules rather than a European electronic toll system. We believe that there must be a European electronic toll system. It is clearer from the legal point of view, and it is also more stable, simpler and easier to understand. We shall therefore oppose these Italian proposals. By contrast, we are entirely in agreement with Amendment No 39 which seeks to protect privacy, since we are proposing a switch to Galileo. It seems to us that these precautions are necessary. Finally, we shall approve and support Amendment No 40 tabled by the Verts/ALE Group, because we believe that a toll cannot amount to nothing more than a tax or an additional charge. Nor can a toll be simply a means of covering the depreciation of our road infrastructure. A toll must also be a transport-policy tool, and must be able to guarantee modal transfer and cross-financing, so as to encourage people to switch to other alternative modes of transport in future. –  Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs de Palacio for her speech this Monday night at the beginning of the Parliamentary session on a matter that is highly topical, since, in fact, our speeches are not so much addressed to Commissioner Busquin or to Mrs de Palacio herself as to the ministerial meeting of the European Space Agency, which is due to take place in a few days’ time. We have high expectations of its outcome. I think it is worth saying that this is a topical initiative. It is not intended to replace reports or the debate on the Green Paper, or the Galileo debate. It has simply become clear at various meetings that this is a critical time for the European space sector – perhaps more critical than we realise – due to the problems of Arianespace, which affect not only launchers but the entire satellite industry as well. A question mark is therefore now hanging over the skills and expertise we have acquired, which are extremely valuable at a time when new space powers are emerging all over the world, at a time when we can see that the market studies carried out in the 1990s are no longer being acted on, in particular in the field of satellite constellations. We therefore need to examine the question of what Europe is doing, given that this is a European project. Of course, the French are particularly concerned, since they instigated the conquest of space a few years ago, but, today, it is no longer possible for one isolated country to maintain its space capacity at world level. Today, therefore, I am not speaking as a Frenchman, Commissioner, but as a European who would like us to consider Airbus and what that remarkable achievement involved. We should make that clear to those who might say that if the European space sector does not measure up they will buy elsewhere. We could also have purchased planes elsewhere. Sadly, however, this would compromise European skills, technology and expertise, and, in particular, civil applications in all fields, including medicine, information technology and aeronautics. This is therefore a strategic project, not just in the military sense, but also quite simply in terms of what is Europe’s most valuable asset, in other words its technological progress. As far as you can, we would like you to convey to the Member States, who are also members of the ESA, our desire to see an emergency plan implemented to restructure the launcher sector, and also our desire to see the Galileo crisis resolved. You have certainly done more than your duty in this field. For the first time, Europe is sending out a strong signal, it possesses a space programme, and we know that programmes are essential, but we can see that the ESA is suffering one crisis after another. Commissioner, we believe it is very important, on the one hand, to succeed in overcoming this crisis at the next ministerial meeting of the ESA, and, on the other, if we do not succeed, to ask the Commission to take matters firmly in hand. I know this is difficult, I know that Germany and France in particular are not necessarily cooperative with regard to establishing an executive director. I would like to see an end to minor skirmishes in this field. What we are asking, however, is that the Commission compensate for the failings of the ESA, if failings it must have. Lastly, we would like to send a message to the Convention on the future of the Union, calling for space to be an area of shared competence in future, since, once again, we believe this would be in keeping with its strategic nature. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I wish first of all to thank the rapporteur, Mr Guido Bodrato, for the remarkable work he has done and for the ability he has demonstrated to listen to divergent opinions and to reconcile them. I believe that this is an altogether remarkable document. This report is particularly exciting because it comes at the end of what has been a historical period for space, thanks in particular to the crucial boost given by Mr Philippe Busquin and his staff. Indeed, for the first time, Europe is outlining something other than a policy to regulate competition and the internal market. It is drawing up a genuinely proactive industrial and technological policy which I hope will reassure all those who sometimes doubt whether Europe provides any real benefit. Europe has achieved these results firstly through Galileo, which has given us the opportunity to create the first European mixed investment company, in other words, a joint company that will support an industrial and technological project. It has also done so by laying the foundations, with the help of the Green Paper, of a space policy that acknowledges that space is a major technology by dint of the importance of its applications in all spheres, including the civilian; a policy that acknowledges the need for proactive political support; a policy that recognises the need to uphold our independence with regard to the emerging powers. This is a point of which Commissioner Busquin has reminded us and one that we feel is extremely important. At the same time, we must remain open to the world because, in the background, extremely fruitful cooperation is taking place with the USA, with Russia, over the Soyuz system at Kourou and with China over Galileo. In other words, space is entering a new era: an era of growing influence for the European Union as a space power that can act completely independently of the world’s superpowers against the backdrop of a crisis, in particular the crisis besetting public budgets. We now need to follow the direction set out in the White Paper. I personally hope that relations between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Union improve. We need the ESA and its skills, but we also need the Union and its political support if we are going to be able to speak with a single voice in the first division. I also wish to see institutional consolidation within the Commission. Because the Treaty provides for space competence to be shared at European level, the Commission will have to ensure that full use is made of this competence. In this regard, I wish to express my attachment to the framework programmes for research and development and for the ‘aeronautical-space line’, which appears for the first time in the sixth FPRD. I am also committed to developing a culture of programmes and the capacity to launch sectoral European programmes through the other Commission services. Having said that, I am thinking in particular of Global Monitoring for Environment and Security (GMES) for the environment and of the follow-ups to Lisbon for education. In other words, I wish to congratulate Commissioner Busquin and Mr Bodrato and say that this is a fine example of a dossier in which Europe can do most when it moves ahead with political will. I offer my best wishes for success and continuity for what we have managed to achieve together in the five years of our mandate. –  Mr President, the White Paper on transport is undoubtedly an achievement for which we must thank Commissioner Loyola de Palacio, because, for the first time, she has not just laid down market rules, but has proposed to us a proactive strategy in favour of a transport policy that promotes sustainable mobility and favours methods of transport which are non-polluting. We welcome the fact that our proposals for a European loan to finance trans-European networks, which are currently at a standstill in the Council, have been included. However, in the final analysis we abstained from voting on this report for one simple reason: we believe that there will be no fair competition regarding transport in Europe without a policy of social and fiscal convergence. The current fiscal and social differences between Member States, particularly on the eve of enlargement, are likely to lead to registrations being transferred, particularly where road transport is concerned, and this will distort competition and render ineffectual and obsolete our efforts to open up markets and to achieve modal transfer from road to rail. Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Bodrato on the quality of his report and I would like to include Commissioner Busquin in those congratulations since, in the course of this legislature, which is drawing to a close, he has been absolutely crucial in the European Union becoming a space power. I do not believe the intergovernmental level is enough today and, in a world where competition in space matters is growing, we must underpin the development of space and the European Union’s space autonomy with a strong political power, which is embodied by the European Union. I believe that is the essence of what has happened during this legislature. Personally, I am glad about it. Another thing that has happened is that we have launched an ambitious programme, the Galileo programme, in which a number of countries in the world are interested, China in particular. I would like to raise a number of points about the White Paper and Mr Bodrato’s resolution. The first point is about the budget. I believe it is absolutely essential for us to be very ambitious about space and in particular that our ambitions about space should be part of an industrial policy. An independent space programme is not simply a matter of sending devices into Europe’s space, it is also about mastering the basic technologies and their civilian applications, of which there are a great number. The second point is about the link between the military and civilian. I think we should tie in our thinking, that of Commissioner Busquin and the DG for Research, with what is happening in the common foreign and security policy, because it is well known that the Americans and all the existing space powers, including the Russians and the Chinese, have devoted a large part of their space developments to military applications. The third point concerns enlargement. I think a number of the countries that are going to be joining Europe are not necessarily going to feel interested in Ariane or in space developments whose spin-offs today benefit mainly France, Italy, the United Kingdom and Germany, but not necessarily Lithuania, Cyprus or Malta. It is therefore very important that we send those countries a message. That is why I have tabled an amendment to the effect that we should bring astronauts from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe into the corps of European astronauts and that we should plan a manned flight with one such astronaut very soon in order to involve them in the conquest of space and its magic and so that they will support it. My final point is about US strategy. I do not know whether it is an opportunist strategy on Mr Bush’s part in the run-up to the election campaign. At any rate I am glad that Europe is in on it, but it must not for all that neglect the establishment of Soyuz in Kourou or neglect its independence in space matters. That is what I wanted to say to you, ladies and gentlemen. –  Mr President, I should like begin by congratulating Mrs de Palacio on having proposed a text of this nature. I believe it was necessary and timely in light of two phenomena: on the one hand, the democratisation of air traffic that we must anticipate in all its forms and with all the consequences it entails and, on the other, the increase in denied boarding, which occurs sometimes and quite often – increasingly often, in fact – for reasons that are not openly declared and which are often commercial. It was, therefore, absolutely crucial to continue to make progress in affirming and protecting passengers’ rights, whilst avoiding falling into the trap of seeing the matter as all black or all white, and in particular the trap of excessively condemning the airlines. In this regard, I wish to congratulate our rapporteur and the entire Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. I would say that following this reading in the Committee on Transport, we are finally achieving quite a healthy balance. A balance first of all between passengers’ rights and a flexible service. Overbooking in particular is a bad thing when it is a systematic commercial practice, but it is also an argument for flexibility between those who cancel at the last moment, because customers are sometimes also responsible for overbooking, and those who could take their place. Balance has also been reached between airlines’ liability for compensation and the basic economic requirements of air transport, so that the payment of compensation does not have an undue knock-on effect on prices at a time when the economic situation is difficult or does not lead to an increase in prices for passengers. Lastly, balance has been reached between the cost of denied boarding and the precautionary principle in the field of safety. What had to be avoided at all costs was for sanctions or compensation to be so high that they cause airlines not to take major technical incidents quite so seriously, in other words, using safety to offset the costs of denied boarding. As a result of these various balances that have been achieved, the Committee on Transport has backed Mr Lisi and has today provided us with a useful text. My hope is that the Commission will take account of the comments and the recommendations of the European Parliament. I must also, however, express one regret: perhaps we have not been firm enough on waiting lists, which are often unclear and on which we should have forced airlines to allocate passengers seats in the order in which they booked. Mr President, I should first like to thank Mr Sterckx, who has done a remarkable job as rapporteur, even if there might be doubts that this committee has got to the bottom of things. It is obvious that, in spite of irrational and last-ditch opposition by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to try to minimise the responsibility of the Spanish State, particularly in management of the wreck, the truth has become clear. We now know that we are, in fact, faced not simply with problems of prevention regarding safety at sea, but also with problems concerning the management of wrecks. I must say, for myself personally, how sorry I am that the document we are presenting to you does not go into these matters in sufficient depth. We also have two questions to settle. Firstly, that of the fate of Captain Mangouras who, it seems to me, is clearly being made the scapegoat – there always has to be one in such a case – and whose treatment is not worthy of a great democracy. I hope that the political change in Spain will allow the relaxation of the judicial control to which he is subject and that he will at last be allowed to return home. He will have suffered the lot, detention as well as having to lodge a very substantial security. Secondly, in Amendment No 11 and Recital 15, on which we expect to be defeated, we express our wish that the wreckage should be dealt with. We cannot accept that causes of long-term pollution should remain while people gradually turn away from them, trying to avoid the responsibilities of the Spanish State in this area. I think therefore that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will be very clear. Finally, we of course hope that the proposals for the future made in this report will be adopted. The Group of the Party of European Socialists hopes that future packages will not all be called , but that there will be a  package to emphasise the fact that we have drawn the conclusions from this wreck and from this disaster. There are several questions at issue here, in particular the question of how responsibility is assumed. There are two schools of thought regarding these problems; those who want duties on polluting and those who want insurance. We are among those who think that the insurance arrangements must be strengthened and, in particular, extended to cover the degree of danger presented by the cargoes and not only their value. I would have had many other things to say, but in two minutes I cannot go any further. I simply hope, Commissioner, that, as in the past, you would draw positively all the conclusions from this report so that we strengthen further the requirements of the European Union regarding safety at sea, particularly within the IMO. –  Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I would like to express my regret that we have engaged in a battle over amendments after the enormous success of Mrs Langenhagen’s report. I think that divisive forces have also been at work in the European Parliament, but I am convinced, from what I have heard, that they will not succeed. I hope that, however we vote on the amendments, tomorrow’s vote will be an overall majority in favour of the Galileo report. The most important thing is that Parliament does not become divided, and that it continues to show its support for Mrs de Palacio and the Commission on this extremely important project. We cannot merely focus on accounting and notarial-oriented matters when discussing a subject of this importance, when the Americans are pouring millions of dollars into their aerospace and space industry. We are today facing the acid test. Either the European Union is capable of launching a space programme as modest as Galileo, forty years after the daring innovations of Airbus and Ariane, or – as some Members who are sitting on other benches have said – we show that we are incapable of doing this. If we have to show that we are incapable of this, I do not want Parliament to take any responsibility for this and I hope that the Commission and Parliament will, in future, display a united front when showing the Council what its responsibilities are. –  Thank you, Commissioner, for this new information on the trans-European networks. I should like to mention one issue, and at the same time take the opportunity to say that I welcome the fact that it has been included, and that is the crossing of the Pyrenees. It is an issue that has received much less media attention than the Alps, but it is probably a more critical one. Even now, the number of heavyweight vehicles which cross the Pyrenees every day between the Iberian peninsula and France is greater than the number crossing the Alps. We shall therefore be faced with the development of a very critical situation, because infrastructures on the Atlantic side are lagging behind. As for the actual crossing, or central railway tunnel, I believe that this is a very good thing, but we must not forget that this tunnel will certainly not be constructed in the short term, since the Lyon-Turin tunnel and the Brenner tunnel have to be built first. I would like to make a personal plea – and I would like to hear your opinions on the subject – for emergency structures at either end of the Pyrenees, particular between the Basque Country and the Atlantic coast. It seems to me that it is there, first of all, because that is where the people and the activities are, that we shall free the bottleneck in the road and rail routes leading to the Iberian peninsula. –  Madam President, I want to talk about the same point of order as Mr Atkins. I do not think it is usual for the discussion preceding a vote to be a discussion of amendments. We discussed the latter in committee. What is more, I was able to obtain these amendments yesterday and I believe that we are called upon to have a general discussion today. We shall have ample opportunity tomorrow to vote on the additional amendments tabled at the last minute by all the groups. I think that this important matter, close to the committee’s heart, ought to be debated today. –  Mr President, first of all I would like to thank our colleague, Dirk Sterckx, who has put an enormous amount of work into a report which is extremely important as it is a policy document that will lead to a great deal of further discussion. Personally, I fully agree with the committee’s report, in that there is a need to open up the European skies, and with the need to unify them, since, although roads have been unified, the railways, the sea and the skies are not yet in that position. It is extremely important that we move in this direction, but this should not be limited to the creation of a new market. Personally, for several reasons, I feel that the tone of the report is excessively smug with regard to the liberalisation that has already taken place. Firstly, the competition with which we are familiar has created two air spaces: that of the major routes on which we see congestion, delays, queues and broadly inadequate consumer protection laws, although prices have, of course, fallen. And then there is the air space of the smaller routes, which is expensive and which has largely been overlooked by the market. I live in Bordeaux, but it is more expensive for me to fly from there to Lisbon than to fly to New York via Paris, and if I wish to fly to any other French city, I have to change aeroplanes at an airport in Paris. I feel that these effects of liberalisation should not be ignored. Secondly, I think that it is important to point out, as certain honourable Members have during this debate, that safety is not something that should be haggled over, and that European harmonisation of air traffic control must include this aspect of safety and it must not be handed over wholesale to businessmen. This is extremely important. I am one of those people who think that a European system of specifications should be introduced, some kind of agency, of course, but which would not necessarily involve privatisation and competition between the various air traffic control centres that exist at the moment. Lastly, my third reason is that the Union’s regional policy, which accounts for the Union’s second largest budget, is meaningless without an effective planning policy. Airports are highly decisive factors in influencing the location of businesses, senior officials, management, and therefore jobs to an area. I fail to see why subsidies should be banned both for routes and for infrastructures, when certain remote regions do not have access to airports. I feel that this aspect of regional planning should be taken into account. Commissioner, you began the debate on the  by explaining to us that the maritime environment was an area of uncontrolled freedom, a kind of jungle that needed to be subjected to rules. What was the case where security was concerned is, unfortunately, all the more the case in the social sphere. We all now know that crews are particularly mixed, both in terms of nationalities and also of social and geographic origins. In these conditions, self-handling amounts to introducing the social jungle of the maritime sphere into our ports. Naturally, the problem it presents is basically one of monitoring compliance with the social rules of both the recipient country and the port. Who will argue convincingly that, because they have stepped out into a port at which their ship has just called, two Filipinos, three Malays, two Argentinians and one African engaged in self-handling will respect the same social rules that apply in the country in which that port is located? Naturally, that is how dock workers – and not simply dock workers but also dock work companies throughout Europe – have realised that the desire was now to engage in competition through social dumping, that is to say by resorting to the social break-up of an entire profession, whether it be public or private. That is why we cannot agree to set the fox to mind the geese. What is necessary, rather – and all the populations would understand this – is that a genuine assault be made upon the anarchy that prevails when it comes to flags and crews reduced to slavery and that it be ensured that all of the rules are applied, rules that are totally circumvented by the majority of countries in the International Maritime Organisation which, as everyone knows, are pirate countries, no less than the shipowners who are nationals of them are pirates. If the ability existed to restore order and also to harmonise the fiscal and social conditions in all our own countries – and this is valid not only in the maritime sphere but also in that of heavy goods vehicles – then, certainly, a directive such as this would acquire credibility, and it would then be possible to talk about fair competition. Unfortunately, it is, rather, a form of social break-up that you are proposing to us and, in these conditions, we cannot take the risk. Madam President, Commissioner, we welcome with relief, even if it is only a stay of execution, the Commission’s decision to allow the Alstom rescue plan to take its chances. Let us not deceive ourselves: behind all the good reasons put forward by one side or the other, this issue will be a political test of the first order for the European Union as far as public opinion is concerned. This issue, which concerns one of the jewels in the crown of industrial and technological Europe, on which hangs the future of 118 000 employees throughout the world, is a practical test of both the European project and the Commission. Commissioner, we do not underestimate the extent to which the French Government, forced into a corner, making its clumsiness and its attempts to lay down the law even worse, has presented us with a fait accompli by publishing a rescue plan before negotiating with the Commission, as it is obliged to do under the Treaties. However, Mr Mer must be aware that in the past, on the basis of the same Treaties, another French Government, that of Mr Fabius, succeeded, without any difficulty and without any vain polemics from Brussels, in saving the French steel industry in circumstances which were difficult in other ways. Believe me, we are the first to suffer, we the elected representatives of France, when we see the Prime Minister of our country prostrating himself here in order to ask you to accept record deficits, and, at the same time, the reduction of VAT for his voters in the restaurant trade. It is true to say that in this behaviour, on the part of a country like France towards the European Union, there is something similar to, and as unilateral and arrogant as, the behaviour of Mr Bush towards the United Nations. Unfortunately, however, he needs a diversion and a scapegoat. He needs the old trick of treating himself to false victories when faced with the bureaucracy of Brussels. For all that, Commissioner, this episode, which can only be the herald of others like it, given the worrying movements towards deindustrialisation and delocalisation which are affecting the brightest jewels in our industrial crown, should make us, as Europeans, ask ourselves about the place and the status of our policy on competition within the Union. It is becoming increasingly outrageous and intolerable that our competition policy, in a context that is quite different from that of the Treaties by which it was established in 1986 and 1992, should remain bound by the impassable horizon of being simply a policy of the European Union. Many voices – too many, and increasingly credible – are being raised to claim that Europe cares more about the inexorable law of the market than any of the most free-market countries in the world, starting with the United States of America. Today, faced with the inexorable affirmation of the new major powers of tomorrow, Europe needs to look at things and judge them from an angle other than that of unbridled competition. It needs an industrial policy which is capable of protecting its national champions, of safeguarding its priceless technical heritage and its precious . It needs a social policy which aims to maintain living standards and the employment of the greatest possible number of Europeans. What is at stake here is, first and foremost, a social issue of primary importance, but also the competitiveness of Europe in the world at large. Finally, how can we make our peoples understand that an administrative authority over which there is no parliamentary control should alone take a decision of such importance that thousands of workers’ families are now awaiting it with bated breath and with anguish in their hearts? Above and beyond the decision that you take – and I cannot imagine that it will be a second negative – the whole meaning of the European project and the structure of the current Treaties are being called into question here. In this respect, we can only hope, if such a thing is possible, that the next Intergovernmental Conference will tackle this need to push forward, side by side and on equal terms with competition policy, a social policy of employment and an industrial policy which will enable the Union to defend its economic and social interests in the global world in which we shall be living from now on. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to say that I am personally committed to implementing the Single Sky project for three reasons. The first is related to the rationalisation of capacity and everyone agrees on this point given the explosion in air traffic. The second is the introduction of safety standards of a high level, particularly prior to enlargement – and this, in my view, is a very important point. The third and final reason is the transformation of the Eurocontrol consensus into Community regulation. These three factors are of quite major importance. This matter is difficult because it got off to a poor start, due to two initial mistakes made by the Commission, which first of all wanted to present it as a power game between the Commission and Eurocontrol and which has probably also bowed down excessively to pressure from airlines in view of the commercialisation of control services. But the Commission presented a second proposal which I believe constitutes a considerable shift, with the participation of Eurocontrol, the acknowledgement of services of general interest of air traffic control services, the character of natural monopoly and, above all, the fact that the Member States are integrated in a Single Sky and will have a say in the way the regulation works. We also believe that there are still three questions that need to be answered. First of all, the auxiliary services are still very vague: at times, there is a restrictive conception, at others, an extensive notion of these services. I do not believe however, as shown by the unfortunate example of what was done with the railways in the United Kingdom – and we must learn lessons from this – that we must break up the chain of control by too great a degree. Radar, radio and information technology are the eyes and ears of air traffic controllers. We have, unfortunately, seen what can happen when they are lacking. This does not mean that an integrated service is infallible, but it does mean that there is probably a minimum degree that services can be integrated and perhaps even a maximum that we can preserve. Secondly, it appears that the interaction between Eurocontrol and the European Air Safety Agency is not clear. The Agency is not mentioned in the draft texts, but it will come into being and clarification will be necessary. Lastly, there is fierce opposition to the attribution of blocks of airspace and we must overcome this opposition. In fact, if each Member State can appoint its provider and if two Member States do not agree on the provider, nothing is said about how to resolve the issue. We shall therefore propose amendments to address this point, and hopefully they will be adopted. – Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Bouwman on the publication of this text, which had been uncertain for a long time. This is indeed a very important date in maritime history. A number of our colleagues have said that this text is a precursor to the  package and, in many respects, it aims to solve a problem that is even more serious. This problem concerns acts of ecological piracy, when ships discharge waste at sea, discharging hydrocarbons and a huge amount of waste onto our shorelines. It is also a victory for Parliament over the Council’s reluctance to imposing a common-sense fee-paying system. The principle of polluter pays is not working in the case in point, because the polluter cannot be identified. If we want to settle this issue, we must move towards a universal fee system, which will be mandatory and not linked to the act of waste treatment. I am among those who, in their capacity as French Members of Parliament, have made every effort to ensure that this text is published, even acting against the sympathies of their government towards this text or against its reservations. I am among those who welcome this compromise. But this compromise cannot be allowed to become a let-out. It must be implemented and its implementation must be strictly monitored at the level of the Member States. In this connection, I would like to give you the position of a Frenchman who has worked so hard, despite the reluctance of his government. It is clear that this text currently favours large ports and puts small ports, which are not equipped, at a disadvantage. I therefore call on the Council to help Member States equip small ports, possibly in the framework of the Structural Funds, or in the form of some kind of loan, because small ports are also important elements of national and regional development and of regional and local economies. And I believe that, if we provide small ports with waste treatment plants, we will secure the success of this directive. Mr President, this oral question has at least one thing to be said for it, inasmuch as what was a phantom dossier has now become clearly visible, since the Council has just confirmed that what we have been reading in the press, what we have heard whispers about from the Council, and what, in some cases, certain Commissioners have been saying, does in fact exist. There really is a Quick Start programme, even though Mrs de Palacio had explained to us that it did not exist. Thank you, then, President-in-Office of the Council, for confirming this so clearly here today, and I should also like to thank all those Members who put their names to this oral question. After all, it is a good method to try to begin with those projects which have been around the longest, thereby avoiding a situation in which, as a result of trying to take on too much, we end up by not achieving very much at all. I therefore welcome the fact that there is, after all, a method for implementing the TEN projects. What is clear, however, is that the real priority list is this one, the Quick Start list, because that is where our meagre funds will be going, and our funds are very meagre compared with the immensity of the task. I therefore share Mr Jarzembowski’s point of view. I believe that it would be inappropriate for the European Parliament not to be informed about and associated with the implementation of this list. I am not sure whether we should go as far as codecision when it comes to the method for funding and implementing the TEN projects. What I sure about, however, since it was I, together with a number of other Members, who called for it is that we must have regular information about the implementation of the thirty TEN projects which we shall be voting in favour of. I hope, therefore, that this sitting will at least have been useful in two ways. On the one hand, it has sought to clarify the procedure so that we can see whether or not we are within the codecision framework – and we shall have to have a very clear answer on that subject – and on the other hand, if we are not involved in a codecision procedure, it has at least made provision for an annual report on the implementation of the TEN projects which we have voted in favour of. –  Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the President of this eventful sitting, the Members present and Mrs Reding. Commissioner, with regard to the forestry issue, I would like to say that, although your openness has sometimes made your words difficult to accept, you have, at least, been frank, in contrast with those declarations made at the time of the incidents, which may have been rather rash. I sincerely feel that your approach is far more beneficial to the credibility of the European Union than the tone of the declarations made when the issue first arose, which led us to believe that Europe was much more involved than it actually intended to be.  The subject of the forestry sector is now open to debate, and we must take up the issue of natural disasters as well, for we cannot endeavour to draw closer to our citizens and then explain to them that we are unable to help them when they are in trouble, while, at the same time, we are sending task forces abroad. This is a matter of genuine symbolic and political significance. So thank you.  I would like to express my support for the comments of Mr Daul, who worked together with Evelyne Gebhardt to draft this resolution on the timber industry, and to express my regret and shock at the fact that we have exploited the plight of the people of Ethiopia to further our petty games. Petty games which are not acknowledged, moreover, for although, effectively, the right does exist to request that the quorum be tested and also to bring up the issue of Friday working, it is blatantly obvious that this morning’s events were an attack by the anti-Strasbourg faction. And, even more seriously, it appears that this incident may well be repeated every Friday. We do, however, have one small consolation in that it will not be long before their refusal to participate affects those who were conspicuous by their absence today and who managed to derail this morning’s sitting.  We simply need to return to the issue of the agenda again as soon as possible. It is a well-known fact, and I am publicly admitting it before all those here today, that the Chamber is never full because Parliament’s work is specialised. Nevertheless, we must stop trying to hide... – Mr President, Commissioner, I think that the reason why we have before us today a Council common position differing considerably from the initial Commission proposal and from what Parliament worked out is because, as we all know, this matter has arisen from a misunderstanding between the desire, on the one hand, to substitute the Commission for Eurocontrol, and on the other hand, to give the air traffic controllers too much responsibility for delays, particularly in 1999, which was marked by exceptional military constraints. I think that, since then, we have done a lot of work and we are not very far from reaching a balance point. We have recognised that air navigation services are of general and security interest. We have left it up to the Member States to appoint their services. We have brought Eurocontrol into the picture, which I think was absolutely necessary. At present, there are still some points to deal with. Although I am aware of the legal constraints that they imply, I approve of and encourage the efforts that the Commission is making so that the military authorities at least agree to have a discussion. We are aware that there is an obstacle there, and quite a considerable one, which concerns capacity and is undoubtedly much more significant than others that are too often pointed out. Secondly, the question of arbitration on international airspace blocks has not yet been decided upon. I think that it would be enough for all the parties present to agree to re-establish taking into account Eurocontrol’s assessment; the Commission, as is normal practice, needs to give the final ruling on that assessment. Finally, I am of the opinion that we need to implement Recital 16 and Article 7 of Mrs Sanders-ten Holte’s report, which are aimed at involving staff as closely as possible, as they are an integral part of the safety chain. The air navigation profession is not simply about the market – and I think that the Commission can take pride in having finally recognised it – it is first of all about ‘policing’ airspace, airspace which will become increasingly overloaded and in which we must at all costs preserve know-how and excellence, avoiding introducing too much competition into the sky ‘policing’ services. –  Mr President, I thought, since I represent the Bordeaux area, that you were giving me the floor so that I could answer my Bavarian colleague on the subject of Bordeaux wine. However, it seems that you are asking me to speak on Tajikistan instead and, as I have five minutes, I shall try to be as clear as possible about an issue that is perhaps rather esoteric and complicated. It concerns exceptional aid to Tajikistan which is, as you know, a small country located between Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, China and Afghanistan.  There is a history to this issue and really what I would like to do today is to close a subject that began in 1991 with a loan of EUR 1200 million to the Newly Independent States when the Soviet Union collapsed. The loan has been repaid by all of the States apart from three. In 1997, three States were experiencing difficulties and were seriously behind in their repayments: Georgia, Armenia and Tajikistan. Thus the Parliament was informed in 1997 of a proposal by the Commission, which aimed to reschedule and restructure these three countries’ debts. It was therefore decided to put in place two types of financial assistance. On the one hand there would be loans – at the time EUR 245 million had been earmarked for loans to these three countries – and on the other hand, a gift of EUR 130 million, whose main objective was to reduce the burden of debt and to improve the ability of these countries to repay.  1997 was also marked, and this is the crux of the issue, by a civil war in Tajikistan, a terrible civil war between the reigning power and the Islamic opposition. Parliament then proposed, on the basis of Mr Kittelmann’s report, to defer aid to Tajikistan and that is why, two years later, now that the situation has returned to normal, we are being asked today to reopen the matter. In fact, although the situation in Tajikistan has remained highly critical and worrying, in terms of politics as well as economics, it has gradually become more stable. There has been an agreement between the different parties, which has been implemented and universally respected, even if security in the country is still subject to caution due to the presence of warlords and the powerful wave of Wahabi fundamentalism in Afghanistan. In terms of economics, the country has made great efforts under the auspices of the IMF and is benefiting from a structural adjustment facility provided by that organisation.  We, the European Union, are therefore being asked to re-establish contact with Tajikistan and to implement a restructuring of the debt as today, around EUR 73 million is still outstanding. What the Commission is proposing is actually to repeat what was done for Georgia and Armenia, which was to make provision for a new loan which would enable Tajikistan to repay the previous one but on much more favourable terms in order to give this country some breathing space, and to make provision for a gift of EUR 35 million for the period 2000-2004, in order to reduce the burden of debt.  Unfortunately, I have to say that the Commission’s proposal is extremely contradictory. We are in fact being asked to make a loan of EUR 75 million and a gift of EUR 35 million and now we see that no more budgetary funds are available for donations and that, in 1999, we only budgeted for the donations granted to Armenia and Georgia, donations which are due to end in 2001.  As a result and quite logically, we, the Committee on Industry, within whose competence this matter essentially falls, have been told by the Committee on Budgets that under no circumstances could we endorse donations which have not been budgeted for today and which have not been provided for in the financial perspective, particularly in Category 4, which, as you know, is already under pressure through trying to finance Kosovo. Therefore, the compromise which we have reached with the Committee on Budgets consists effectively of only keeping the loan of EUR 75 million whilst agreeing – a position of the Committee on Industry which I think has been understood by the Committee on Budgets – that Tajikistan should also be able to benefit from supplementary aid in order to reduce the monthly debt repayment of EUR 200 000 which it cannot afford.  Tajikistan is, in fact, the poorest of the Newly Independent States and the one that we absolutely have to stabilise because, rather like Chechnya and for other reasons besides, it is a country that could endanger the whole region, particularly because of its strategic position with regard to Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, which are very rich countries.  We have consequently tabled a series of amendments. Firstly, amendments that endorse the donation; then amendments which point out to the Council and the Commission their contradictions by telling them that it would be desirable to grant direct aid, but by financing it under another line, and here I am thinking of TACIS; and finally, amendments concerning conditions: monitoring the way the funds are used, the political and democratic conditions and the monitoring of the Parliament. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is with mixed feelings of regret and satisfaction that I begin this evening’s debate on the creation of a European Union Solidarity Fund. I feel regret that we were not listened to following the disastrous storms of December 1999, the effects of which are still felt in many regions of France and Europe. I feel satisfaction, which is of course tempered by the tragic events in Germany and Central Europe, that the European Union has finally conceded that it must be seen to stand by our fellow citizens in times of difficulty and in the physical and material tragedies that affect them. I would particularly like to congratulate Commissioner Barnier and his department, as well as Mr Berend, for the exceptional resourcefulness that they have shown in preparing this dossier. I believe that this report is a credit to both the Commission and Parliament, and the European Union as a whole, both because of the speed with which it has been produced and because of its balanced approach, its recognition of the exceptional nature of disasters, and the prominence it gives to urgency, flexibility and adaptability. Nonetheless, disasters can be tragic or perceived to be so regardless of their extent, and I believe that this evening, since we are finally putting in place a mechanism that we can call upon when major events take place, we must also consider our presence when smaller-scale troubles, tragedies or natural disasters occur. No death can be classified as more or less important than any other, in the same way that no ruin can be classified as major or insignificant. That is why I shall, once again – and I would like to thank Commissioner Barnier for mentioning this – call for the creation of a European body for civil security. It does not have to be created from scratch and would allow us to establish and dispatch to the regions in difficulty civil rescue forces wearing the colours of the Union who will thus display our solidarity with the citizens in times of misfortune. –  Mr President, I feel that it is perfectly legitimate for the European Union to equip itself with common rules whenever we introduce competition into local public services. I feel that it is infinitely less legitimate to seek to withdraw a method of management and to introduce competition within the field of transport and to use case law to extend this to all the other fields in the future, through a regulation which is not transposed by the national parliaments. I have several reasons for this view. The first is that the private sector has not always performed better and I urge my fellow Members to come and see what is happening in France, in the water industry, which has been largely opened up to the private sector. Cartels have sprung up, which are no longer controlled by the local authorities and which currently supply water at higher prices than the local authorities, which remain under direct management. On the other hand, we must not consider direct management to be a better method, but simply that the two methods of management must co-exist. Secondly, this goes against the principle of subsidiarity. If subsidiarity means anything at all, then it most certainly means the freedom of administrative choice of local authoridies and the constitutional provisions of most Member States, under which decentralisation now gives freedom of choice to the mayors, regional leaders and heads of local authorities. There is therefore a genuine political problem posed by this regulation. I do not think anyone can deny this. Lastly, we must also be very clear on this question. Whenever a mayor chooses direct management, he cannot turn to external markets. Who knows of a school bus service, in a rural area, managed by the local authority, that has to rely upon external markets? This is not a problem that exists in reality. On the other hand, whenever public services are delegated or an exclusive choice is made by a business, which is, itself, competitive, this company can turn to the external markets. That is why I believe that we must impose the principle of reciprocity. In any case, however, we cannot give up direct rule as a method of management. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I should like, first of all, to thank our rapporteur, Mr Bradbourn, who has taken a great deal of trouble to come up with a report which now seems to me to be perfectly acceptable. Naturally we are pleased that the new guidelines being proposed to us for the TENs are moving towards and are in line with the policy of sustainable mobility which was proposed to us in the White Paper. I believe that this cohesion was absolutely necessary and I consider, personally, that the new objectives which have been proposed to us are probably sustainable objectives which will go beyond the other re-focussing phases of these projects. We also warmly welcome the six new major specific projects, in particular Galileo. We in this Parliament approved this project with a large majority, and we have seen what an impact it has had. I also warmly welcome, on my own account, the links through the Pyrenees, because it cannot be repeated too often that the Pyrenees pose a problem which is just as acute as the one posed by the Alps. However, this report raises two series of problems. The first problem concerns the definition procedure of Annex III. How can we avoid Parliament becoming a sort of auction of a certain number of local and regional projects, without any budgetary responsibility, which would eventually lead to Parliament being discredited, because of course we all have our favourite projects in our own regions, and in our own towns and villages? Moreover, how can we ensure that these projects are not snatched away and removed from the free will of those who represent the people, in other words Parliament? I do not think that we have settled this question properly, and we shall have to think about it in terms of procedure. For our part, we have decided to support, on a provisional basis, the Annex III proposed by the Commission, but I wish to make it quite clear that I do not consider it to be satisfactory. The second problem is that of funding. I believe, Commissioner, that it will be necessary to take a very strong initiative on the question of funding the TENs. In a way we are parading, at European level, a responsibility and an option without resources. When you look at the work that has been carried out, this is not satisfactory. I personally believe that, in addition to the proposals that you will be making to us on the system of charging for the use of the infrastructure, perhaps you could also include the idea of a large loan to finance the TENs and to accelerate their implementation. If you were to launch such an initiative, there are a number of us who would support it. –  Mr President, I agree with most Members in believing that forest management is essentially a local and national matter, since forests throughout Europe are different and consist of individual types of forest. On the other hand, I do not think it odd that Europe should be concerned about the health of the whole of its forest heritage, because air pollution, plant diseases and even natural or accidental disasters do not recognise borders. Consequently, the best formula is no doubt the one referred to by Mrs Grossetête, in other words codecision, or development towards codecision, in matters concerning forests. Having said that, apart from any approval that might be given to this Forest Focus programme, I believe that it has a harmful effect on a policy which was much appreciated and which was working very well, in other words Regulation (EEC) No 2158/92, which has been mentioned by a number of Members. I live in a region in the south of France, in which great efforts are being made, in terms of investment, to prevent forest fires. What is happening at the moment is highly regrettable, a sort of conjuring trick whereby Forest Focus first of all abolishes a source of funding which was managed under the codecision procedure, and renationalises it under the heading of rural development, even though, as Mrs Figueiredo said just now, we do not all have the same legal basis, we probably do not have the same funding, and we are also unable to finance the same types of investment. I am sorry that a policy which works is being changed. Moreover, it was a safety policy. Despite the fact that efforts are being made everywhere else in Europe with regard to maritime safety, air safety, rail safety or even health safety, the Commission is now proposing to simply do away with a policy of prevention and safety in the area of forests, which is an extremely sensitive area for all the countries in southern Europe. I believe that this is a deplorable step backwards. I am afraid that if, one day, we have disasters in the south of our continent, the public will blame us. We are always saying that we want to be closer to the people, that Europe should have solidarity, that Europe should be on the side of Europeans. Yet in this extremely sensitive area, for which there was a procedure which worked well and was particularly well appreciated, Europe is now becoming invisible. It is removing this procedure from its policies and is renationalising it under the heading of a particularly risky policy of rural development. This is why I shall be supporting the remarkable work done by Mrs Redondo Jiménez and, in particular, the amendments which she has proposed, Amendments Nos 17 and 21, as well as Amendment No 47, proposed by the European Socialist Party. I hope, Commissioner, that you will reconsider your initial proposals, explaining that they will not be supported by the Commission. –  Mr President, as you would expect, I voted in favour of the Turchi report, which increases European financing for cross-border networks to 20%. In my view, however, the Commission’s proposal falls a very long way short of the challenges and, in particular, of the new guidelines for its policy on sustainable mobility. First of all, if the level of support is increased but budgets stay the same, there is a strong risk of causing disappointment and of giving rise to extremely difficult negotiations when the documents are presented to us. Secondly, Europe cannot carry on indefinitely being a major prescriber and a bad payer. When we see the delays incurred in work on the projects approved at the Essen summit, when we see that today, when a new policy on sustainable mobility is being proposed which is extremely demanding in terms of public incentives, when we see that the Council has just withdrawn or deferred the six new projects that were absolutely essential for implementing the Commission’s new transport policy, projects which were included in the guideline proposals on European public networks, we can only appeal for the problem of financing trans-European networks to be tackled at last, and that our European transport policy is finally allocated the resources that match its ambitions. –  We have just voted in favour of an association agreement with Lebanon. Less than a year ago, this Parliament asked for an association agreement between Europe and Israel to be broken. What are the principles according to which what was valid yesterday in the case of Israel is apparently not valid today in the case of Lebanon? I think it should be borne in mind that this country is not a democracy, that it is not a country governed by the rule of law, that the fundamental rights and principles we hold so dear are trampled underfoot there every day, that Lebanon continues to harbour terrorist organisations, in particular Hezbollah, and that it is occupied and ‘annexed’ by another country, Syria. Yet, there we go, reaching out to Lebanon. I believe that a balanced European policy would, of course, be a policy which was open to the countries of the Middle East, indeed to all the countries in the region, but which should obviously begin by maintaining that association agreement with Israel which is visibly threatened every day by a variety of initiatives, in particular by those initiatives to impose a scientific boycott which are shameful and must be condemned. I believe that a sound European policy is one which is open to Lebanon, certainly, but that, at the end of the day, Europe’s place is beside Israel. Mr President, the case involving Mr Sichrovsky is probably the most sensitive that we have had to deal with in the course of our mandate, both because of reasons relating to procedure but also, and more importantly, because of the background to the matter. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the principles that have guided us in writing this report and which are, as we have seen in the previous debate, fundamental to this Parliament. The first principle that must hold sway here is to disregard, as far as possible, all public opinion when we have to deal with a report on a request for the waiver of immunity, as well as to abstain, as far as possible, from judging or prejudging the Member of Parliament involved, something that is not always easy. The second principle is that we must always act in accordance with the law, with respect for both the law of the Member State and also what is becoming parliamentary law, for substantive rules and formal rules, which imposes a strict obligation upon us to be consistent with decisions we have made in the past. We must also focus solely on the charge laid against the Member, and this is a principle that cannot be violated. This is a particularly important point in the case involving Mr Sichrovsky and I shall come back to this in a moment. Finally, when there is some doubt, the doubt must always work in the favour of the accused, of the Member of Parliament whose immunity we are being asked to waive. In the case of Mr Sichrovsky, therefore, as in all cases, I believe that it is important to reiterate the principle of immunity and the reasons for its existence. Immunity is not a privilege granted to an individual Member of Parliament. Its role is to protect: not to protect an individual, but rather to protect the institution through the individual concerned. I must say that the case involving Mr Sichrovsky and those that we shall deal with in a moment have arisen in situations where information has been flowing freely, which explains why we have an increasing number of slander and libel cases. We have also entered into a democracy of opinion and a situation in which life and public life, in particular, are penalised, and I am taking this opportunity to reiterate that civil laws also exist to sue for alleged damages, particularly where the damages have been caused by a press article or by slander, and I think that we must take this opportunity to reiterate that immunity does not mean impunity, it is a suspension of the criminal law procedure, which does not, to any extent, prevent criminal proceedings being instigated during the mandate of the Member of Parliament. In the case of Mr Sichrovsky, who, I must remind you, has been accused for having described the President of the Jewish community in Vienna as an ‘idiot’, an ‘aggressive, irascible, incredibly mean’ and ‘spiteful person’, a ‘professional Jew’ who ‘would take advantage of his dead parents to appear on television’. Naturally, one would think that these words constitute an incitement to racial hatred and to anti-Semitism. I personally refuse to contemplate this theory for the simple reason that he is not being charged with this crime, and in these circumstances, I think that we must not allow ourselves to substitute the crime against him with another. We were able to carry out a detailed analysis of the case within the Committee on Legal Affairs and this was a detailed investigation of the case over the course of several meetings, since this case has been before the Committee on Legal Affairs on three or four occasions. This investigation showed that these words, even if they were pointed, however excessive or hateful they may seem, were spoken in a political context and in response to criticism of which Mr Sichrovsky himself was a target and to criticism regarding his political affiliation on the basis of his religious beliefs. His political position on the basis of his religious affiliation, in other words. That is why the Committee on Legal Affairs has taken the view, as it has in similar cases, namely those involving Portuguese Members of Parliament, that there was a link, albeit tenuous, between what he said and his political affiliation and political views. However, this link does not, of course, apply to everything that was said but I think we should accept that all of Mr Sichrovsky’s words form a whole, and that the privilege of immunity should therefore be granted to him. Mr President, first of all, I welcome the rapporteur’s laudable efforts in such a difficult area. It is true that we need peace right away – it is urgent – it is true that we need to show the prospect, as has been said, and that we need to re-humanise this debate and avoid turning the parties into monsters. That was said with a great deal of humanity just now. I would, however, like to make a few brief comments on this report, but first to add my voice to the protests that have been raised against the Malaysian Prime Minister’s racist remarks. I want our Assembly to note that and take strong initiatives in this regard.  I would also like to express my strongest indignation at what Mr Gahrton said just now in justification of terrorist violence and to say that while the occupation must be condemned – it is questionable and I have many criticisms of Israeli policy in that respect – it does not justify terrorism and never will. Terrorism is a crime against humanity, it is absolutely evil, without equivalent, and must be condemned. I really would like to know what the connection is between young people who blow themselves up in discos or people who are murdered in restaurants and the occupation. I think the comparison is absolutely outrageous. Personally, it makes me want to throw up. Coming back to the three things I want to say about this report, first of all, as I said, terrorism really cannot be put on the same plane as the criticisms that might legitimately be made of Israeli policy. They are two different things, different in the moral hierarchy and in the hierarchy of evil. Then I would like to mention sanctions, in particular the breaking off of the association agreement. Breaking off that agreement is a sanction against a people, and since our Assembly called for the embargo against Iraq to be lifted on the grounds that a people should not be punished for the acts of its leaders, I do not think we should punish the people of Israel, especially when we have just voted for an association agreement with Lebanon, which can tell us a lot about occupation, being a country that is occupied, annexed by Syria, whether we condemn it or not. Finally, my third comment is about the international mandate, which takes us back 50 years. I would like to point out, however, that what was passionately refused yesterday is being demanded passionately today: the 1967 borders, the division of Palestine into two or the Clinton criteria. That is what is being called for today after overturning the table. . – Mr President, legislating in criminal matters is often countered, wrongly, with arguments of individual freedom and security. Is one secure when freedoms are no longer guaranteed? Is one free when security is no longer assured? Modern criminal law revolves around the quest for a balance, a dialogue between security and freedom. And this dialogue is open-ended; it adapts to the demands of the day. Nowadays, certain forms of crime are cross-border crimes and it is, of course, in the interests of the Member States to improve cooperation so that they can crack down on them. But the Council’s draft leaves a lot to be desired and attracts criticism on several counts. First, the form: the draft convention is vague in the extreme, and this is totally incompatible with the objective of legal certainty in a modern society. It is not just a question of style. We are taking about criminal law here and criminal law has to be interpreted by the letter. Then the content: the Council draft fudges the obvious difficulty caused by widely differing legal systems, varying practices and a total lack of legal public service standards in certain Member States of the Union. It makes provision in article 9 for prisoners held in custody to be transferred from one state to another despite the fact that guarantees differ. I should like to stress this point because it is paramount. We must not forget that several tens of thousands of people are currently held in custody in the European Union without having stood trial and that, in some states, custody is abused and used as a means of extorting confessions. It is nothing less than legal torture. Other European countries, on the other hand, do not accept confession as sufficient proof of guilt. It is this diversity in our criminal policies which we have to address and legislating properly means looking for genuine legal convergence criteria and facing up to the reality of prisons in Europe, which are often overcrowded places outside the law which are a disgrace to the conception we have of ourselves. Mr President, as you know, all of our countries abolished the death penalty years ago, but with nearly a thousand suicides a year in our prisons, they have not really abolished it? –  Mr President, I would like, if I may, to make some comments that have been inspired by this report. My first comment is that this report deals with a serious matter. Firstly because the charges are serious, and secondly because this relates to the freedom of individuals and the freedom of Members of Parliament. I have four comments to make on this report. First of all, a debate is clearly taking place on the purpose of parliamentary immunity – something that the general public do not understand and which is perceived as a privilege, even though it should not be a privilege. I think that this debate must be held especially since the general public does not understand the issue and that the charges are particularly serious and particularly significant. Having said this and be that as it may, under the Rule of Law, the procedure must be strictly observed and we must ensure that these matters are considered in law and that procedures are strictly observed. My third comment is that the media coverage of these procedures is not compatible with an impartial justice system and the requirements of an impartial justice system. My final comment is that the Europe of human rights is obviously not yet in place, that there is no  in France, although a great deal of progress has been made, particularly as a result of the support given by Mr Jospin’s government to the issue of the presumption of innocence. Nevertheless, with 125 suicides committed each year in prison, France may have abolished the death penalty but it has not yet eliminated it altogether. –  Mr President, I would like to make a few remarks, but, first of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs who, in my view, have done some excellent work on this particularly complicated dossier. We have discussed every aspect of this issue during the debate, so I shall simply make two or three comments. The first comment is that we must, in a situation of this kind, always strive to disregard all political considerations, in any case, as far as this is possible, and to give a verdict based on law. The second comment, which is also an idea underlying this report, relates to the concern for equity, balance and equality between MEPs. I think that we attach great importance to this, as well as to the desire to affirm, by adopting this type of position and this type of report, the prerogatives of Parliament and its Members. This is also a point to which we cannot fail to attach great importance, especially since it seeks to harmonise criminal law, something I am hoping and praying for. I would hope that this harmonisation aims to achieve greater freedom, not only for the Members but for all the citizens of the European Union. In this area, however, there is unfortunately still a great deal to be done. I would like to make two final comments. The first is that it is always regrettable, in matters relating to freedom of individuals, to favour a collective approach over a personal approach. But the rapporteur is not without good reason. The procedure states that things should be thus and I think that, in relation to issues which concern individuals and their freedom, their situation under the law, we must ensure that the procedures provide for an assessment of each individual case. This avoids a collective approach or a political approach to the problem, even if this has not worked in the case before us today. My second and final comment concerns the case of Mr Dell’Utri and I echo the calls that have been made to differentiate this case from others for the reasons that have, quite rightly, been outlined. –  I would like to make a brief point, Mr President, that, in Mrs Jeggle’s case, there is nothing to prevent parliamentary immunity being waived, even more so because the events, which today justify such a request, took place before Mrs Jeggle was elected to the European Parliament and they bear no relation, either direct or indirect, to her political activities. I will, however, briefly comment on what the two previous speakers said. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was, I believe, unanimous in its support of this outcome also because, although the offence was, admittedly, serious, there were, as far as I am aware, no victims, and because given the nature of this offence, Mrs Jeggle does not run any real risk of being imprisoned or prevented from exercising her mandate. Having also taken this into consideration, the Committee decided, rightly in my view, to waive the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Jeggle. – Mr President, I also agree with the rapporteur’s conclusions, though more the conclusions than the analysis which leads to them, since I believe Mr Camre’s immunity should not be lifted. I would, however, like to make two or three observations: firstly, that I share – as others have said – the distaste which I believe we all feel at the nature of the opinions expressed by Mr Camre. However, I believe that it is our duty and a matter of our honour not to take them into account. It is true that for several years a tendency has emerged within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and more generally in this Parliament, aimed at protecting MEPs’ opinions or the MEPs against whom proceedings are brought as a result of opinions or attitudes which may arise from a political point of view, in the broadest possible sense. I believe we must defend this tendency and affirm it; that is what this report must do. It must be affirmed in this report and in others, all the more so because while Members of Parliament have particular responsibilities, one would have to be blind not to observe that they are also exposed in a particular way. We must take account of this exposure and the risk it poses to prominent figures in public life today: the almost systematic challenging of the responsibilities of local elected representatives and the no less systematic legal action against Members of Parliament as a result of the opinions they may express. I believe we must take account of this development and protect the Members of Parliament, not really in order to protect the individuals, but rather the institution, its independence and its freedom. At a time when we find ourselves increasingly in a democracy of opinion, it is essential that we take measures to allow Members of Parliament to express themselves freely and to make their opinions known free from pressure, including pressure of a legal nature. This is the approach which has been taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs and by this report. That, I repeat, is why I agree with this request to preserve Mr Camre’s immunity, regardless of the reservations, regardless of the distaste we feel for the opinions of the Member. –  Mr President, I think we all agree that a European legal area must be created. We also all agree that there should be harmonisation in a field that is marked by the great disparity of our legal systems and, what is more, concepts. The very word bankruptcy, the legal concept of bankruptcy, does not cover the same accounting concept in each of the Member States of the Union. We therefore all agree on the established facts, and the draft regulation and the report are going in the right direction. If I may, however, just make a few comments on the method. When you observe – and you cannot fail to do so – the disparity in the legal systems and concepts, and the fact that we wish to improve coordination, I believe that there are three ways in which we can proceed. The first is to establish equivalence, saying: in the final analysis, bankruptcy in France is the same thing as bankruptcy in England or in Germany. The second way is to recreate a law , that is to say, to harmonise the systems and completely overhaul all the concepts and legal systems in each of the Member States. That is not the route that has been taken. The third route that has been taken is in the end to superimpose above the existing systems, which are not touched, a real embryo of Community law of collective procedures and procedures for companies in difficulty. This is a good thing, moreover, and the result has probably exceeded what the authors had hoped for. But at this stage I should like to make an observation, which is not technical, but more philosophical and taken from practice. It is that bankruptcy is experienced within the European Union, in the majority of States, as an absolutely definitive event for the person it affects. And I believe that it is our responsibility, in an ever more rapidly moving economy, where everyone must have a real opportunity, to give people the chance of running a commercial enterprise, and a second and a third chance, if necessary. Today, in many Member States, that is not possible. One of the reasons that explains the difference in competitiveness between the European area, for example and the United States, is precisely this ability of bouncing back that exists on the other side of the Atlantic and that we just do not have here. I believe that since we have gone that far and we are continuing along that path, which is the route of creating a collective procedure for regulating this type of legal standard in the European Union, we should bear in mind that it should not become the allegorical figure of the guillotine. . –  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, giving Europeans the best training for the future, from their earliest youth, whatever their origin and level of education, above all means giving them the ability to speak languages other than their mother tongue. Haute-Normandie has one of the youngest populations in France, but also one of the highest levels of youth unemployment. Speaking another European language can clearly be a key to success for those young people. Making 2001 European Year of Languages will make Europeans aware of the linguistic diversity of the European Union. It is an excellent decision and has my full support. But I do not think we should only devote one year to this aim. Lasting commitment is needed.  Indeed, it is our duty to be ambitious and to demand that all our young people are able to speak another language fluently, offering them bilingual education whenever possible. In this respect, IBIS (), which first saw the light of day in Haute-Normandie, is most exemplary. I am convinced that other operations of a similar nature should be massively encouraged and financially supported by the European Union. –  Mr President, the Jews are the enemies of the prophets and believers. The Jews are traitors and infidels. Students must understand that there is a link between Nazism, Fascism and Zionism. The Jews seek to persecute. They conspire with hypocrites. Those are a few passages from the Palestinian schoolbooks used to teach children in the territories, an education service, moreover, which we ourselves are funding to a large extent. As you said, Commissioner, particularly where wages are concerned, the European Union is funding a form of education which is, in reality, being twisted into anti-Semitic propaganda. I have asked you about the Commission’s participation in educational programmes, and you avoided the question. I also asked you how the Commission might monitor this aid, and you did not reply to me on this point because there is in fact no real monitoring. I am sorry to have to tell you that I am not satisfied with your reply. I asked precise questions and I expect precise replies on such a serious subject. Are you, yes or no, prepared to make Community aid, and not that of the Member States, conditional upon respect for fundamental human rights? . –  Mr President, this case gave rise to very long debates and a certain number of changes of heart within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, before a unanimous position could be reached. These changes of heart are linked to the singular character of this case. As in the previous case, we are faced with a situation in which freedom of expression is at stake. An action has been brought against Mr Musotto in connection with certain remarks he made to Italian television just after his election by universal suffrage, but before the beginning of the Parliamentary session. The problem is, therefore, that, according to the letter of the treaties, he was not a ‘proper’ Member of Parliament at the moment he made his feelings known. This strict interpretation – restrictive, even – would lead us to waive the immunity of an individual who was not a Member of this House at the moment in question. This solution may be pure in legal terms. It is morally and legally profoundly shocking, however, for in legal matters one must consider not only the letter of the law, but the spirit as well. With this in mind, there can be no doubt that, when he was interviewed by the press, Mr Musotto was already considered to be a Member of Parliament, since, when the journalist spoke to him, he prefaced his question with Mr Musotto’s Parliamentary title. It is thus indisputable that Mr Musotto was interviewed in his capacity as a Member of Parliament. He also gave his answers in that capacity, and it seems to me that any result which threatened to waive his immunity, or which threatened not to uphold his immunity, would go against the spirit, if not the letter, of the law. That is the unanimous opinion reached by the Committee on Legal Affairs in the course of lengthy debates. As the rapporteur has already stated in a previous case, interpretations of national law must be set to one side where the freedoms of thought and expression are involved. Whatever Mr Musotto may have said, we should uphold his Parliamentary immunity at all costs: the independence of our institution is at stake. I agree that it is harmful to be overly reliant on national laws. In the case in point, it would seem that Italian law grants immunity to anyone who has just been elected by universal suffrage. By interpreting the treaties generously, the Committee on Legal Affairs has acted with great wisdom, courage and consistency, since its stance is directly in line with previous decisions taken in analogous situations. We have nevertheless incorporated into the conclusions to our report a suggestion that the Convention and the next Intergovernmental Conference correct this textual anomaly by amending Article 3 of the Act of 1976. Such a revision would allow optimal protection of Members, guaranteeing them real freedom of expression and filling the existing legal vacuum. Finally, it would make the beginning of the mandate and the proclamation of the results of elections to the European Parliament coincide in time. The letter and spirit of the treaties would thus be reconciled. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is why I recommend that Mr Musotto’s immunity should be upheld. . – This resolution is neither fair nor useful, yet Europe could make an important contribution – it does have the means to be credible. To do so, it would have to continue to support the genuine development of the Palestinian territories, and of the Palestinian State in the future, laying down respect for fundamental rights as an absolute condition for its assistance. There is no reason not to be fair. We need a lot of pride to sanction Israel, its people, its civilian army and its democratic vitality, and although collective responsibility makes sense, I am not sure that our history or our recent past really qualify us to make such judgments. When we ourselves were faced with similar difficulties, we did not react any better. Can Italy, following police violence in Genoa, or Sweden, after police violence in Gothenburg, give Israel appropriate lessons in maintaining public order? Can France, whose troops camped outside Srebrenitza during the massacres? Can Spain, which as we know suppressed Basque terrorists, or England, which censored information during the Falklands war, teach Israel lessons in transparency? Rather than rushing to condemn Israel again… . –  The major political obstacle standing in the way of the adoption of this report is the application threshold values of European standards, which are of absolutely crucial economic importance for public works companies, the environment, public finances and infrastructure quality. The crux of the matter, politically speaking, is simple: above what amount, in millions of euro, must a public contract be subjected to Community procedures? There are two conflicting theories, therefore: Those in support of increased threshold values have pointed out that this would avoid administrative costs and cumbersome bureaucratic processes for contracts which will not, in any case, attract international competition. They would therefore not enable more cross-border procurement to be carried out in the area of public contracts. At the same time, however, the local authorities must bear the extremely high costs of the tendering process. On the other hand, I am in support of maintaining the threshold values at their current level, as proposed by the Commission. The aim is to create a genuine single European market in this sector. Furthermore, the increases requested would strip the directive of its impact to the point where it no longer has a raison d’être. I believe that this increase would risk a radical reduction in the number of contracts which would essentially be open to Community competition. The majority of contracts would be granted in accordance with national or regional procedures. This is why I abstained from the vote in plenary. Mr President, we have two Austrians and we have two cases where press laws have been violated. In this case, Mr Voggenhuber has been accused of having described Mr Haider as “a fascist and the FPÖ is a neo-fascist party. The FPÖ and Jörg Haider exhibit all the essential features of fascism. The authoritarian tendencies, the myth of the strong man, the rabble-rousing against minorities, racism, the description of foreigners as parasites, the description of welfare recipients as spongers, the description of his own nation as a monstrosity, the description of his own country as a ‘banana republic’. All this betrays an attitude of mind which has been played down here over many years. History will blame the ÖVP for bringing neo-fascism to power in Austria”. These are the words which have caused Mr Voggenhuber to be charged in the Austrian criminal courts. For the reasons which were mentioned previously in relation to the case involving Mr Sichrovsky, I must say that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market showed no hesitation in concluding that parliamentary immunity should not be waived. Parliamentary immunity is granted whenever there is a link, however tenuous, however slight, between what the Member of Parliament said and the expression of a political opinion and, in the case of Mr Voggenhuber, there is no doubt that he was expressing a political opinion, even if these political views were put in, admittedly, rather forthright terms, which may cause their target to react and which, evidently, provoke a reaction from their target. I believe that we simply must protect every Member’s right to free speech as well as the independence of our institution, especially when expressing purely political opinions in an unambiguous manner. However, I am taking this opportunity to say that in this case, just as and, perhaps even more importantly, in the previous case involving Mr Sichrovsky, that parliamentary immunity serves to protect the institution, and all Members of Parliament must see it their duty to protect the institution. If we also tone down our words, and this is something that applies to everyone, because we can say anything as long as we say it in a measured and courteous manner, we can help to protect the institution that we represent, to enhance its dignity and the way in which it is perceived in the outside world. This applies to Mr Sichrovsky in particular. In the case of Mr Voggenhuber, however, the Committee on Legal Affairs did not hesitate in deciding to propose to you, Mr President, that parliamentary immunity should not be waived for the reasons that I have given. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, on behalf of all my colleagues in the French Socialist delegation and on my own behalf, our position on the report on the adoption of a Statute for Members. The Statute needs to be adopted as a matter of urgency due to the imminent completion of the current enlargement process. We are in favour of the principles underlying this step, even though we disagree with certain provisions concerning the sum and taxation of remuneration for Members. The compensation system for Members did need to be rendered more comprehensible, but the text proposed does not seem to us to respond fully to this need. That is why the French Socialist delegation wished to amend the text by voting for Amendment No 8 to Article 7 of the draft Statute, which it tabled alongside other political groups. We feel that intelligent implementation of this principle means that remuneration would be adapted to different standards of living in the various Member States, even if certain inequalities would have to be corrected. We are sorry that this amendment was not adopted. In the current context, increasing remuneration for Members of the European Parliament would run the risk of causing an unfavourable reaction, at a time when the legitimacy of differences in remuneration between the economic and political elite and the rest of the population is in question. – Mr President, I agree with the opinion of the rapporteur. I would like to take this opportunity to say a word or two on the reasons leading us to believe that we are looking at a case of what we call , that is to say, something which, in legal proceedings, gives the impression that something is going on other than the desire to see justice done in a dispassionate and normal fashion. First of all, as the report points out, of the various people who could have had proceedings brought against them for the same alleged offences, Mr Cohn-Bendit is the only one who has been accused, something which I see as a criterion in itself. Secondly, the lateness of the proceedings: they have been brought, arbitrarily, a long time after the alleged offences were committed. Clearly, the difficulty with this case relates to the fact that the offences of which Mr Cohn-Bendit is accused happened a long time before he took up office. It is precisely because these proceedings have been brought now he is an MEP that we should be asking questions. Furthermore, this complaint – and I would add that I consider this a significant point – does not come from just any old person. It comes from a Member of Parliament who is an opponent of Mr Cohn-Bendit and who has used these accusations as one of the elements of his political battle. This is made abundantly clear by the victorious press articles and  issued by this plaintiff just after the indictment or, should we say, the acceptance by the public prosecutor of his charges against Mr Cohn-Bendit. I feel that all of this leads us to believe that if Mr Cohn-Bendit had not been a Member of Parliament, he would not have had proceedings brought against him. We are therefore dealing with a genuine case of , as the rapporteur has pointed out, and there is good reason to preserve Mr Cohn-Bendit’s immunity. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only two years ago, in Iran, two Jews were accused of spying for Israel. They were sentenced to death and were hanged. Today, thirteen Jews and several Muslims from Isfahan, Shiraz and Tehran have been arrested and face the same fate. Little is known about them. The accused, one of whom is sixteen years old, come from humble backgrounds: a cemetery caretaker, a shoemaker, a ritual performer of circumcisions, a teacher of Hebrew. It is hard to believe that these unfortunate people are really endangering Iran’s democracy.  Since their arrest, there has been no news of them. When we start hearing about Jews being arrested and espionage trials, this is a very worrying sign. We are worried because we know what conditions of detention in Iran are like. This is worrying because no evidence, no specific charge has so far been made public and there has been no due hearing of the case. We are worried because the accused do not have the right to mount a defence. We are worried, Mr President and also sad, because we were delighted at the prospective rapprochement between Iran and the European Union. It is now obvious that this business compromises the rapprochement and until we have obtained guarantees that the rights of these prisoners are being respected, we cannot even consider it.  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are now hostages coming between Iran and the European Union. . –  Our society does not have enough confidence in young people. In my political life I have always been struck by the fact that the future of young people and their concerns are not at the heart of public debate, and neither the political world nor the power of the media really tries to help young people. That is especially true in Normandy, the region I represent, where too often youth is associated with deviance and delinquency, forgetting the vast majority of young people who work, dream, love and live, the bearers of all our hopes. The European ‘Youth’ initiative is a first step in that direction, and bears witness to a growing awareness of young people in the EU institutions. But it is essential to maintain this effort over time if it is to bear the desired fruit, in the interests of young people and therefore of Europe. So I am convinced that other initiatives, especially aid to youth associations, should be massively encouraged and financially supported by the European Union. –  Mr President, when we learned a few months ago that thirteen Iranian Jews had been imprisoned a year earlier, we were concerned for their fate. At that time, in an effort to reassure us, the Iranian Government told us it was not a racist trial because many Moslems had also been arrested and indicted on the same charge along with the thirteen Jews. But the trial opening today only involves the Jews. They are being tried separately from the Moslems charged with them, which proves, if proof were needed, that this trial – which we are told is to be adjourned – is no genuine trial. You will remember, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and it has been mentioned, that some Iranian Jews were arrested for spying for Israel a few years ago. They were put on trial for it and hanged. Who are the accused? We should point out that they include a cobbler, a cemetery caretaker, a boy who is not even sixteen yet, and two old men. It is hard to understand how these people are endangering Iranian democracy. What are they supposed to have done? No one really knows! We do not have the right to know what they are supposed to have done. A letter to a family in Israel may have been enough to set this case in motion. In a previous resolution and in repeated letters supported by the President, we asked to be allowed to visit the prisoners. That was refused. We then asked to meet the families who are not sworn to secrecy, as far as I know. That was also refused. We asked – in a unanimous resolution – to be able to attend the trial. Up to now that has been refused. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must recognise the immense risk run by these thirteen people and strenuously reiterate our requests to send observers to this trial and be given access to the evidence in the case. We must also make clear our intransigence on relations with Iran. I hope we are not going to wake up, some day soon, and find that these thirteen people have been executed because they were Jewish. –  Madam President, I have personally been taken to task by Commissioner Patten, as have several Members, which is why I think we at least have the right to respond. It is unusual for the Commission to have the last word, having taken Members to task and especially having pointed out that it is not up to a Member to check up on funding granted by the Commission, particularly to the Palestinian Authority. I maintain all that I said about education in Palestine. Even if the European Union does not pay for these books directly, it certainly pays for the teaching. What Chris Patten has just told us is a justification for teaching that instils hatred and martyrdom. Mr President, our history is one of boundaries that we cross, a history of walls that we pull down after having built them. This is because a wall, Mr President, can be rebuilt, but a life cannot, and I agree with Mrs Morgantini when she says that it is not enough to call for international law to be respected. Does international law allow a State to protect terrorist cells that are going to attack the civil population of another State? I ask you that. I agree with her when she says that it is our duty to intervene and I share her indignation that we cannot be happy with moral stances, as we so often are, stances that ease our consciences, but, ladies and gentlemen, a clear conscience is the opposite of real conscience. Yes, Mr Cohn-Bendit, we need a political shock! Nor can I let it be said that this wall is the same as the Berlin wall, as I heard mentioned just now. I personally am against this wall, because I am against the line that it follows. A wall dividing one nation in two and a wall that aims to create a border, even if the border is completely open to argument, cannot, however, be considered to be the same thing. I would like to add that I was one of those that signed a petition against the line the wall follows, in particular at Abu Dis. Everyone is calling for a return to the 1967 borders and I am surprised to note that today there are passionate calls for what, yesterday, was rejected just as passionately. This is because, in the end, what the more moderate amongst us are asking for today, is nothing more than a return to the Clinton parameters, the parameters that were recently rejected altogether. Mr Monti quite rightly said that Hamas and Islamic Jihad do not recognise Israel’s right to exist, as the suicide attacks have shown. We are deeply embroiled in the matter and there is in actual fact not just one conflict; there are four. There is a war being waged by the Palestinian authority for the legitimate liberation of the Palestinian state and we are supporting it. There is war being waged by the Israeli State for its safety. We are supporting this too. There is also, and this has to be said, a type of colonial war being waged by some Israelis and there is, and we really cannot overlook this one, a war to destroy the Israeli State being waged by some Palestinian factions. If we are not aware of these four conflicts then we cannot understand what is happening. Mr President, Europe cannot try to define the political prospects of the Middle East while ignoring certain realities, even though these may be disagreeable. On 1 January 2000, Iran demanded the dissolution of the Israeli State. This echoed the demand made by Mr Gaddafi who Mr Prodi is, however, intending to meet in the near future. This would be a mistake. It seems to me that the goal of the dissolution of the Jewish State has an underlying aim of the destruction of the Jewish people. We all sincerely hope that peace can be achieved with Iran and certainly not against or without this great country.  Yet, I would remind you that standing between Europe and Iran are the 13 imprisoned Jews about whom we know virtually nothing other than that their lives are in jeopardy. We have taken steps to help them and will continue to do so. Finally, we cannot continue to read in the press, without reacting, that European public funds may be being used irregularly in Palestine and not as intended.  Peace will be achieved on the basis of economic and cultural development and it is to this alone that Community funds must be allocated. I would ask the Commission to set up an assessment mission to report to Parliament within six months. –  Madam President, this has been a distressing summer in the Middle East and I am extremely sorry to say that the European Union is partly responsible. On several occasions, suicide bombers, armed by Hamas and encouraged by the Palestinian Authority, caused bloodshed in the heart of Israel, and each time, the European Union did nothing more than issue verbal condemnations, whilst all the time continuing to give generous funding to the Palestinian Authority, which has recently freed the most dangerous terrorists. Can we hope to fulfil a credible role when we continue to provide considerable sums of money, unmonitored, to an authority which is an authority in name only, and which remains one of the world’s most corrupt political entities? A recent report by the Court of Auditors revealed that there has been serious mismanagement and many cases of misappropriation under Yasser Arafat. Were sanctions imposed? Did you demand transparency, Commissioner? On the contrary, the complacent attitude and leniency shown by the Commission could only be taken as incentives to continue along this disastrous route. As you know, peace was a possibility at Camp David, peace was within reach. What did Mr Arafat do? Once again, he lacked the bravery of President Anwar al-Sadat and dashed all our hopes. He said no to peace at Camp David. One month later, the  was resumed. This time, however, there were elements of a genuine anti-Semitic crusade and the most dangerous terrorists were at large. Did the Commission and the Council take specific action in response to a further breach of the Oslo accords? Did they even subject their funding to any conditions? The answer again is no, and I confirm that generations of young Palestinians continue to receive education instilling martyrdom and hatred, which is funded by the European Commission. How can we fail to see that the  is revealing its true nature, which is fanatical, mystical and insane and which completely rejects the existence of Israel. We can, of course, criticise Israel but how can we fail to see that the rejection of Israel, when systematic, unbalanced and unjust or even when it involves sending away both parties without favouring either, may serve to disguise the anti-Semitism which still exists? Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the historian Léon Poliakov quite rightly said that anti-Semitism is to refuse a human being the right to exist because he is Jewish and anti-Zionism is to refuse a State the right to exist because it is Jewish. – () Mr President, I would like, if I may, to deliver very briefly a few comments on this report. It seems obvious that we need to completely rethink the organisation of air traffic control in the European sky. In this respect, the Commission’s initiative is commendable. A re-think is one thing, it is also obvious that everything must be carefully reviewed, but I think we should beware of a certain number of preconceived ideas found in reports, communications and speeches on this topic. It also seems obvious that the political division of the European sky no longer corresponds to the technical requirements and market requirements. I was extremely surprised to learn that in today’s Europe, political boundaries still prevail when it comes to the organisation of air traffic control. A European air traffic control space must be created, but must this area be completely unified, and according to which criteria? I have many doubts as to the conclusions of the report. It seems obvious to me that there are a number of advantages to dividing up air traffic control, as air traffic control involves segmenting the territory and technical security limits, but also human limitations mean that each air traffic controller, each control tower can only have a limited territory and a limited number of flights to monitor. In this respect, the cellular, segmented organisation of the European territory must be retained and, in a way, improved. I am therefore in favour of an increase in the number of air traffic control centres as, not the unification of the whole control system, but the unification of the legal system and also technological unification takes place, as this report, and the research behind the report, have highlighted the absence of European will… The European Parliament has today expressed its opinion of the proposed directive on the technical roadside inspection of the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles. It is indeed essential to improve the level of safety and to mitigate the environmental impact of these vehicles, the volume of which is constantly increasing. Setting up random mandatory roadside inspections in order to check their state of repair throughout the year is a pertinent idea, provided that it can be implemented effectively. This proposed directive would be an extremely useful complement to the efforts undertaken in towns and cities, especially in the form of urban transport plans, particularly in the conurbation around Rouen, which is crossed by 5 000 commercial vehicles daily. It is also important, as a matter of urgency, to consider having recourse to alternative means of transport for goods (waterways, railways, etc.) and to consider developing clean vehicles. These are the reasons why, ladies and gentlemen, I supported the proposed directive on the technical roadside inspection of commercial vehicles today. Mr President, October 2000 to October 2003 represents 1 000 days of violence, 1 000 days of the innocent dying, 1 000 days of suffering by both communities, 1 000 days of the Intifada and 1 000 days of Europe’s powerlessness. One day the history of this missed opportunity, this wasted time will be written about, and those who thought that violence was a justifiable political weapon will be judged very harshly. A few days ago, we experienced an exceptionally powerful moment in Parliament, a moment of genuine enlightenment, when we received the Palestinian, Mr Nusseibeh and the Israeli, Mr Yalon. They represent hope, because hope emanates from the communities themselves. Europe could be built because in 1946 a Franco-German commission decided to withdraw anti-German phrases from French schoolbooks and anti-French phrases from German schoolbooks. From that time on, we have not called the Germans ‘Boches’; we have given them different names and looked at them through different eyes. This is the message that we must send to the region. There are people in both communities who think in terms of dialogue, reconciliation, the future and development. These are the people who warrant our support. Those who truly deserve to win the Nobel prize are the Palestinian intellectuals who take the risk, as Camus once did, of condemning terrorism as an absolute evil and a crime against humanity. I cannot allow it to be said, as it was a few minutes ago, that the actions of Hamas have anything in common with the French resistance movement. The real heroes are also the ordinary Israelis, the bus drivers that no human shield has ever thought about accompanying. Europe must think about the communities and about the future. We must stop acting as prosecutors, since we are not really qualified to sit in judgment. We must play the role of a realistic and courageous guide. –  Mr President, it is universally recognised that rules must be observed. It is also universally recognised that our partners must also be made to observe the same rules. Everyone understands that there is concern about this today, but I would not like our demand to be regarded as selectively applicable. Nor would I like our oral question to be perceived as an indictment. Our demand is not selectively applicable and the Commission should therefore regard this as a suggestion to look into the use of Community funds in regions around Israel. And because the Commission’s investigation is not, and must not be perceived as, an indictment, I should like to mention two points which are central to the balance of our approach. Firstly, anyone familiar with the region knows that the future of the Palestinian economy is intimately linked to the economic cooperation agreement with Israel. The Oslo protocol envisages an integrated customs authority to encompass both Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Anything liable to separate the two economies would have a serious effect on cooperation between Israel and Palestine, including joint ventures, Palestinian sub-contractors and exporters. Secondly, nowhere in the agreements between Israel and the European Union are the frontiers of the State of Israel defined. The negotiations in progress between Israel and the Palestinian Authority are specifically concerned with defining these frontiers. Any attempt on the part of the European Union to impose its own idea of the territorial limits of the State of Israel would be, at the very least, lacking in tact and detrimental to these talks and to the idea of the role which we feel Europe should have in this region.