EN
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, all the political strategies presented are certainly very attractive, but, in many cases, they could come up against obstacles of varying size if they are not supported by a completely reliable organisational and administrative system. The accession of the new countries, which we planned, promoted and achieved all together, must take place within a solid, transparent framework in order to avoid creating major problems for the Community staff, who are already being called upon to take on more work, or damaging the image and credibility of the European Parliament. Therefore, the priorities and major decisions must have the necessary support of a Europe which works, which is transparent and, most importantly, which can account for how Community funds are spent and used. The Eurostat affair does nothing to further that cause. It pained me to hear Mr Procacci, who had not read the OLAF reports or the audit, describing this as a minor incident; if we were to read the reports he would realise that they are extremely disturbing. It is therefore the responsibility of the Commission to step up the controls that have proved to be as watertight as sieves thus far, improving the system in such a way as to distinguish between monitoring and controls, on the one hand, and operational management – officials granting authorisations – on the other. Furthermore, the Consultative Committee for market operations, which operated under the previous Financial Regulation, has been abolished, and yet it has become clear that many transactions were not made subject to any requirement of economic benefit, transparency or contractual legitimacy, creating a kind of free zone, in which, even after 1999, or maybe especially after 1999, orders could be assigned with only one firm taking part, often where there was a conflict of interests and with unsigned contracts, leading to damage to Community finances, the extent of which it is difficult to assess. –  Mr President, before I start my speech proper, I will digress briefly in order to respond to Mr Trentin. When populism is introduced into a debate or a discussion, the debate will not bear much fruit. Mr Berlusconi and Mr Blair did not meet out of a desire for formal ceremony. They met in the conviction that there is a labour market model which needs reforming. We have an outdated model which needs modernising. We are also aware that there are conservative forces which protect workers on paper but do not afford them any protection at all in practice. That said, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Karas on his excellent report. It is a faithful, accurate description of the state of the European and world economies following the terrorist attacks of 11 September last year; it is also a working document containing proposals on the future development of the European economy. To bring about this economic revival, we must start with the rigorous application of Regulation 1466/97, which obliges the Member States of the eurozone to present and comply with stability programmes, while it obliges all the other States, pending total accession, to establish a sound, rigorous economic policy which is very close to that of the Member States. It is absolutely vital that all the acceding States apply these rules rigorously: any deviation or indulgencewould be counterproductive and would mean that they would subsequently be unable to endorse positions adopted towards other States which appear weaker on paper. The sectors worst affected by the crisis are also identified: insurance companies, the aeronautical industry and tourism. The suggestion put forward of a State reinsurance mechanism is certainly interesting, precisely because these terrorist acts are not committed against individuals but against the community of all people. It is vital that we learn from this crisis for the future. Growing nationalism and our performance of a leading international role must not lead us to disregard poverty and marginalisation. The greatest error we can make is to identify our own security and stability with the weakness of other, potentially enemy countries. –  Mr President, Commissioner Solbes, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of particular international tension, I believe I can state that the Stability and Growth Pact is like a guarantee of our will to uphold all the restructuring plans and growth programmes that underlie the building of an economically strong, cohesive and genuinely competitive Europe. Any idea of waiving or relaxing established plans would undermine the future development of the whole of Europe. There is now an aspect that should also be given due consideration: the massaging of budget balance data so as not to reveal any anomalies that may still persist in certain public accounts. Unfortunately, in this respect, we in Italy have had to face a sad legacy from the centre-left. This is not the right attitude, certainly worse than that of failing to bring the economy into line with the required parameters. While the former case involves fraudulence, the latter is, it is hoped, just a momentary, temporary difficulty. Such massaging of data should be clamped down on with no half measures and penalties can be imposed where appropriate. In the context of the Pact and the general awareness that it should be observed, it cannot be ignored that certain areas or even entire regions – southern Italy, southern Spain, southern and part of northern France, and eastern Germany – are certainly behind the rest. While the Member State as a whole must observe the pacts it has signed, it is also true that special relief measures for these areas – I refer to differential taxation, the use of unused Structural Funds for tax credits, new types of aid after 2006 for countries excluded from Objective 1 – should not only not be considered censurable but should be seen as desirable by all. . I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work. State aid must be definedand provided by a nation at times of economic crisis. If aid were to become a normal, regular occurrence, far from benefiting the country or providing an essential means of overcoming difficult times, it would without a doubt exacerbate the problems of the recipients. The Berenguer Fuster report on the draft Commission regulation on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to state aid for employment should be read in this light, considering that these articles would also normally apply to the transport sector. The impending enlargement must be seen as an extraordinarily important, exceptional event. It will lead to a change in the distribution of work and to marked differences in salary levels and standards of living between the current Member States and the newly acceded countries. The potential structural distortions generated by the – certainly lower – cost of labour in these countries, by different environmental, social and technical standards and by strong competition between the labour forces on the market can be addressed by making the labour market more flexible and, to some extent, through the provision of state aid to employment. The accession of the candidate countries will lead, especially in the traditional economic sectors such as heavy industry, agriculture and transport, to excesses of labour, and these people will not be able to find work immediately in the new, emerging economic sectors. Madam President, Commissioner Solbes, ladies and gentlemen, I have noted how, regarding the Stability and Growth Pact, exaggerated statements were made and hasty conclusions were drawn in some cases. I am also referring to Mr Poettering: I do not think that Mr Tremonti invited the Member States to run up debts, but rather to look more at the substance than the procedures of what has happened. Nor do I agree with Mr Watson’s speech when he talks of a watered-down Pact. The Italian Presidency has taken it out of the water in which it was drowning. Even less do I feel that I can agree with those who claim that the Pact is dead. If, instead, we look at the facts, we have to agree that, on the contrary, the Pact is still alive and that the Italian Presidency has succeeded in saving it, even in a situation where there were very real difficulties. The Presidency has succeeded in obtaining the unanimous adoption, including, therefore, endorsement even from the most rigorous States, of conclusions which contain important commitments on respecting the Pact, budgetary discipline and implementing structural reforms. This has not been discussed in the Member States, still less in the European Parliament. As regards the Commission recommendation, the issue is a simple one: the Commission presented recommendations which, while fully respecting the Treaty, were put to the vote in the Council. The Council rejected them since the majority required by the same Treaty was not reached. What should the Italian Presidency have done? Taken note of the rejection of the Commission recommendations without adopting any other act? Left France and Germany free to act? Rendered the whole process to date invalid? I believe that, in this case, there really should have been talk of a dead Pact and of the Council’s irresponsible behaviour. Instead, the Italian Presidency chose the only way to save the Pact. Faced with the impossibility of adopting the Commission recommendations, it proposed to adopt the Conclusions in which France and Germany committed to updating the measures for reducing the deficit and to temporarily suspend the procedure. .  Taxation on savings has always been a hotly debated issue. There are some who support a withholding tax, implemented as a tax levied at source which settles the tax position of the person concerned. The other, which is certainly more up to date, is the information system: in this case people do not settle their own tax liability because it will be subject to a subsequent levy on their income tax return. From the point of view of fairness, the second method certainly provides the Community with a guarantee that the income, whatever it may be, is taxed in its entirety. However, this method is only fair if applied by everyone. As soon as one country decides not to adopt it, for historical or opportunistic reasons, the structure that has been built upon it is blown apart. All this applies to the Pérez Royo report, which has taken the information method as the basis for taxation on cross-border savings. For this directive to work effectively, it must be implemented when the third countries adopt it. Therefore, agreement with the third countries is a  for this directive to enter into force. Implementation without an agreement would cause a disturbance in the savings market, the negative effects of which cannot yet be readily assessed. –  Mr President, Commissioner, President of the EBRD, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur on his careful analysis of the EBRD’s activities. The choice of economic activities must combine the local dimension with the international and requires a supply of credit not only to encourage the emergence of initiatives that are well established within a country but also to help them spread to other markets. It is certainly the job of the EBRD to do this, but it is even more important to try to do it in countries with little industrial development, which have a greater need for support and revitalisation. If, in order to achieve this objective, it needs to take risks and, in some cases, accept unexpected losses, it must not then cut out initiatives and planned investments but rather benefit from new experiences so that it can manage lending more attentively and read the risks more carefully. This bank takes an ethical approach to credit management. Its institutional commitment is to invest in any country that is inspired by democratic principles and determined to promote a market economy. The first time, the bank asks clients for valid projects, with current market prices; it also requires that there should be no conflicts of interest or dominant positions in the operational area to be financed, and that the interests of the local community should always be respected. In the public sector, the EBRD calls for the greatest transparency to be employed in order to ensure competition and equal treatment for the market players. We welcome and support the rapporteur’s views when he urges the EBRD to support small local banks, which, in turn, should focus on small–scale lending. At this point, Mr President, allow me to sound an alarm: small bank lending is disappearing or is being considerably cut back. This is a matter for concern, because no economic or financial manoeuvre, however good it may be, could replace the support that small banks have always offered to small and medium–sized enterprises. We must also note that small–scale lending in many Member States and particularly the accession states is being thoroughly neglected; that leads to a daily increase in financial exclusion, which is the existence of serious gaps in the supply of small–scale credit services in the countries with the weakest economies, where a form of discrimination based on geographical criteria arises: red–lining. It is up to the EBRD, which has already chosen to operate in countries such as Albania, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Moldova, to help to integrate these disadvantaged economies fully into the international economic order. –  Madam President, Commissioner Monti, President Maystadt, please allow me to congratulate the rapporteur on her calls for the EIB to attain higher targets in terms of support provided for the Member States’ economies. This Bank performs a special task: the distribution not of all funds, but only of funds intended to contribute to the achievement of the Union’s objectives. This institutional task has helped to create new wealth and to support entrepreneurial initiatives in the regions of the Union which are most lagging behind. The Bank’s efforts to support certain sectors, such as the environment sector, where EUR 5.9 billion has been allocated to environmental protection projects, are certainly commendable. The most important aspect for territorial development is still support for SMEs. In this case, partner banks which also distribute funds need to provide detailed information about the investments. It has therefore been suggested that a credit ceiling is set in advance for SMEs and that, at the end of the financial year, a report is submitted to the European Parliament on the actual use of the pre-established ceiling and on any reasons or difficulties encountered which caused it not to be used, or only to be used in part. I certainly support the major undertaking of the EIB in the candidate countries, but objective 1 regions should not be forgotten: even after they no longer have this status, they should be monitored as appropriate and given substantial credit support so that they can conclude their development process – certainly not fully completed – by 2006. We should pay special attention to the Bank’s Statute, which can only be amended in accordance with the procedure for amending and revising the Treaties laid down in Article 48 of the Treaty on European Union. In particular, Article 5, which provides for 6% to be paid in by the signatory Member States, should be amended. An increase in this percentage would lead to higher loans and, consequently, greater support for the areas concerned, and greater profitability for the Bank or, alternatively, with the same amount of revenue, a reduction in the applicable rates. –  Mr President, Mr President of the European Central Bank, ladies and gentlemen, the efforts of all of us, of the European Central Bank and of Mr Maaten, whose report has dealt with practically all the foreseeable questions that could arise when the new currency is introduced, are certainly commendable. Since this is, in any case, a historic event – indeed, hitherto, all the Member States have had to handle currency exchange internally whereas, now, the entire Community will be changing to a single currency – it may be that all the aspects and consequences of the introduction of the euro will not have been foreseen and that some situations – as yet not clearly defined – might arise after the fateful date of 1 January 2002. From this point of view, it is the duty of all of us to endeavour to make contributions which will not just facilitate the transition but also highlight positive or negative aspects closely linked to the event itself. This is why I feel I may be allowed to focus on three points. Firstly: in the period which remains before the established date of 1 January 2002, information must be must stepped up in the peripheral and decentralised areas, since it must not be forgotten that people in rural areas still practise a form of hoarding under the mattress which must be overcome in this difficult situation. Secondly: after the transition period, during the following decade in which it is laid down that it will be possible to change national currency into euros at Member States' central banks, all the bureaucratic formalities should be reduced in order to allow the poorest people to change small sums of money without any burden being imposed. Thirdly and most importantly: up until the final exchange date, I call upon the qualified intermediaries, particularly credit institutions, to pay greater attention and apply greater rigour to cash transactions. I am sure that organised crime networks amass cash supplies for illegal transactions ... Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report I am presenting to you arises from Council Regulation 1969/88, which established a facility providing medium-term financial assistance for Member States’ balances of payments. Article 119 of the Treaty provides that where a Member State is in difficulties or is seriously threatened with difficulties as regards its balance of payments, the Council shall grant ‘mutual assistance’ so that the functioning of the common market is not jeopardised. That mechanism can be activated by the Council following an initiative from the Member State which is in difficulty or following an initiative from the Commission. At least in its intended form, the mechanism should be distinguished above all by rapidity of intervention and, in response to the loan received, by the adoption of all appropriate economic measures for re-establishing a sustainable balance of payments position. Since it came into force – on 25 June 1988 – the facility has not been activated much. It has only been used twice, in 1991 for the grant of a EUR 2.2 billion loan, of which only one billion was released, and in 1993 for the sum of EUR 8 billion, of which only the first tranches were released. It immediately seems clear that many European facilities offered to the Member States are not fully taken up; the failure on the part of some Member States to make use of the Structural Funds also comes to mind. Perhaps there ought to be superior delivery of information to encourage the members to make better use of the opportunities available. Coming back to the report, I should mention that, as a result of the conclusions adopted by the Economic and Financial Committee on 13 October 1997 and pursuant to Article 12 of the regulation in force, the Commission submitted a report to the Council and Parliament advocating retention of the facility. That position can be ascribed to the fact that, while only countries with derogations can use the facility, with enlargement the eventuality could arise repeatedly. To be on the safe side, it was decided to reduce the ceiling from EUR 16 billion to EUR 12 billion – Amendment No 2, Recital 8; the Council shall adopt the decisions after consulting the European Parliament – Amendment No 3, Article 9; and shall examine whether the facility is adequate every two years, not three – Amendment No 4, Article 11. Subsequent amendment, including altering the ceiling, is therefore still possible. We also support the Committee on Budget’s amendment – Amendment 1, Recital 6a (new) – on the establishment of a mechanism to protect the Community budget from any potential risks of default and corresponding call on the guarantee. We actually think that possibility is rather remote. With enlargement the new countries joining have made significant efforts to put their accounts and balances of payments in order. The Community budget is protected as regards loans granted to third countries by the Guarantee Fund Mechanism. An analogous system could be considered, though with a smaller financial commitment, in the case of finance for countries with derogations. In conclusion: first, the loans are directly guaranteed 100 percent from the Community budget; second, the risk of default, which can never be ruled out, is covered by an adequate protection mechanism; third, the instrument is likely to be better and more widely used at the stage of European enlargement; fourth and last, the management of the loans is entrusted to the ECB, replacing the Commission which was previously responsible for this. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support Mrs Sauquillo's report, commending the hard work put in and the contribution it makes to the changes to the Committee on Development and Cooperation. If, as is hoped in the explanatory statement, the reform brings about greater involvement of the European Parliament, we will have to establish a sort of policy which does not merely stop at money or budget headings, which, in practice, take the form of tangible aid to less developed countries. Aid does not just mean donating money butproviding practical assistance in times of difficulty or for things which they would not be able to do themselves or without assistance. Poverty and need are not just the product of economic backwardness and development problems but are often the result of aggression and the exploitation of the weak by the strong, of the selfishness of the capable in the face of the weakness of the marginalised. Before we start to talk about aid to projects, we should try to remove all the existing causes of exploitation, identifying and bringing to justice those who have exploited and abused peoples which are in a state of need. The reformed Commission must establish a project, before dispensing aid, to investigate the causes which have created or contributed to creating a state of discomfort among the poor peoples. We often talk about cancelling the debt of the less developed countries. The phrase would lead us to believe that it is an act of altruism or great generosity but, when all is said and done, it may be merely an act of justice. The Commission must also ensure that this happens at international level. In this way, quality of life will improve and the gap between the poor, who are becoming increasingly poorer, and the very rich, who are exploiting these situations and becoming increasingly richer, will be lessened. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Trentin report surely lays the initial bases for major future decisions on economic policy. These bases do, however, need to be more incisive and detailed in the proposals, so that they do not merely stand as statements of principle but can be swiftly put into practice. European leaders must apply themselves to rewriting the model for the social and market economy, bringing it up to date and rethinking it with greater emphasis on the social commitment. Signing up in general terms to innovation, training and flexibility and then backing out at the decisive moment is becoming not only disrespectful but surely detrimental to the working class as a whole. Today, to get out of this rut, class and corporate interests must be opposed insofar as they are not compatible with modern reformism. Rather than taking to the streets – or rather getting the workers to take to the streets – the trades unions should be asking themselves how much the workers took home between 1992 and 2000, given the productivity achieved by companies, which was certainly substantial. The proposal to turn employment around is based on a new bargaining structure and real pay flexibility. The new bargaining framework may be a regional or territorial system, half way between centralisation and company-level bargaining, with the aim of strengthening pay flexibility at company level where productivity is created and the individual contribution is valued. A large contribution may be made by company profit-sharing schemes, which allow ordinary shares in the company to be acquired up to a certain percentage of gross profits. It has been found that the companies with the highest profits are also those that use profit sharing to ensure that their best staff are paid effectively. In the USA, the companies that adopt profit sharing tend to have higher pay and higher returns. The pay of those who join profit-sharing companies goes up, while those that leave have to bear a substantial pay cut. Mr President, first of all I would like to clarify Mr Abitbol’s speech a little: Mr Berlusconi has never said that the euro is blocking the economy, but he  said something else, which is that the introduction of the euro has led to bursts of speculation, which definitely must be eliminated. I can, therefore, confirm that Italy is a strong supporter of European unity, without any ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’, and – in my opinion – the single currency will benefit the European economy in the future. After this introduction, I would like to congratulate Mr Bigliardo on the report that he has presented, which is an in-depth study into the European economic situation, and also an attempt to interpret the Stability and Growth Pact in a new way, by looking carefully at European Union public finances. The recovery of the economy which began in 2002 showed itself to be short-lived and it certainly did not trigger a sufficiently powerful trend towards economic growth. Amongst other things, the European Union has seen an increase in unemployment and a gradual weakening of public finances. At the same time, the strong euro has created difficulties for exports and the trend of slowly falling inflation has caused consumption to reach a standstill. On the basis of the examination of these problems, we must ask ourselves whether the rigidity of the Stability and Growth Pact might have had a negative effect on the growth in productivity and on the increase in employment. In order to improve the flexibility of the labour market, we will certainly have to remove the remaining obstacles, adopt the recognition of professional qualifications and establish business incentives linked to productivity. Similarly, programmes seeking to modernise production processes must be stepped up, and it is essential that further investment is channelled into the research and development sectors. We therefore fully agree with the objective to bring, by the end of the decade, spending on research and development to 3% of GDP, of which two-thirds should, as approved by the Barcelona Council, go to the private sector, to reward small- and medium-sized enterprises for their participation in these processes. We will then be happy if, they at least, are not in future included within the total expenditure that balances the budget deficit, which must remain below 3% of GDP. Economic growth in a given area depends largely on the investments that have been planned and made and on the priorities that have been set. Certainly, the transit corridors and goods and passenger transport networks must receive greater attention. In implementing and developing the networks we need to provide for the completion of main routes, the elimination of existing bottlenecks, in particular in cross-border areas, by developing connections and strategic inter-connections. Furthermore, it should be recalled that when putting infrastructures in place for direct connections consideration must be given not only to the central regions of Europe but also to the peripheral regions of the Community. This would effectively guarantee genuine freedom of movement of people and goods within the European territory and would pave the way for strategic interconnection with the Mediterranean and Eastern European countries. Of course, projects of such scale require extremely substantial financial investments, which cannot contravene the strict provisions of the current Stability and Growth Pact. The Pact must, therefore, be read and interpreted in a more flexible manner, but it must also be seen as a guarantee of stability in Europe. Its existence, which was saved and safeguarded by the prudent and intelligent choices made under the Italian Presidency, must be protected and confirmed, but with a more objectively realistic vision of the European economic framework. –  Mr President, after Mr Fatuzzo’s diverting speech, I would like to add my comments on the Katiforis report. I come from the south of Italy and I am sad to say that we continue, as always, to be badly served by airlines. I should have been in the Chamber for one of my reports – I am a shadow rapporteur – but I did not get here in time. In any case, I would like to point out here that this connection between smoking and health which we are continuing to make in resolutions on excise duties and State tobacco subsidies is inappropriate. There is clearly a connection between health and smoking but this is not the way to solve the problem. In southern Italy, particularly in Naples, contraband cigarettes are sold door-to-door and on the street: therefore, if we really want to boost the smuggling activity, the way to do it is to continue to wage war on this product. I would also point out that in some very poor areas with a high level of delinquency, such as the province of Caserta, tobacco succeeds in literally keeping3 000 workers off the breadline, and these jobs would be placed in extreme jeopardy. Congratulations, Mr Katiforis, on your two-fold resolution which the House has endorsed almost unanimously. –  Mr President, I welcome the debate taking place in this Chamber. With reference not to January, when the crisis started, but to the fact that I have been trying to get this resolution debated for over two months with little success, I feel that the very nature of urgent debates must be reviewed. Indeed, whether we achieve much or little depends on the speed with which decisions are taken and recommendations laid down. The situation in Argentina is certainly awkward and sensitive. It is awkward in that all economic or financial mechanisms are effectively frozen. In particular, it is absolutely impossible to withdraw money from a bank deposit except by means of credit card transactions, and these transactions carry the obligation to replenish the reserve. A deposited sum can therefore not be used in any way. Extremely dubious options have, moreover, been provided for the purchase of three- or ten-year bonds but the yield or redeemability of these is uncertain. In any case, it is worth pointing out that it would be absolutely impossible to survive on the yield from these bonds. There is something else I would point out to Mr Medina Ortega, and that is that, rightly or wrongly, where Argentina leads other countries follow: it is seen as an example. There is therefore a possibility that Uruguay, which is already in a similar situation – not to mention Chile and Brazil – might follow Argentina’s bad example. Lastly, I would like to stress that it is extremely difficult to draw up proposals. Indeed, the resolution seeks purely to stress the fact that there is a crisis. It is up to the International Monetary Fund to make a quick decision as to whether to provide aid to the Argentinean crisis and the Argentinean State. One initial step towards resolving the crisis could be to propose once again the creation of an export circuit, specifically a credit card circuit, which must not just be virtual but provide the possibility for people to use their own funds within the bank circuit. –  Mr President, I refer mainly to Mr Marinos’ report, which I certainly welcome for it has succeeded in taking into account all the major economic issues that are relevant to modern, well-equipped companies. Capital transfers, migrations flows, the labour market and pension systems have been analysed with synthetic proposals for solutions. The central panel of the European economic horizon is still, however, the Stability and Growth Pact, which has emerged victorious from the economic storm of recent months. After September 11, there were really very few of us who believed that the parameters established by the Pact could be respected. Now, however, the sceptics – or many of them, at least – acknowledge their mistake and have changed their views. The States which have erred in any way, particularly Germany and Portugal, have set themselves with a will to removing the uncertainties and realigning any parameters which were likely to require attention. With great skill, the rapporteur covers all the economic issues and major summits, from Lisbon to Barcelona, focusing on the major challenges represented by the ever-increasing number of elderly people and by economic refugees and their families, who represent an uncertain variable for the host State because of their tendency to work illegally. I know paragraph 20 of the report contains a reference to the labour market, but the issue calls for greater, more thorough analysis. The profit-sharing system and the profit-related pay system, which benefits 20% of the workforce in employment in the United Kingdom, are models which must be further explored and applied to good effect. The efforts to find the best, most productive labour processes must be matched by endeavours to improve the quality of jobs. Jobs must be developed to incorporate more creativity, to provide a better response to social requirements and to promote human dignity. An increase in professional skill is necessary for reorganisation of the production system to take place but professional skill will also be enhanced as a result of the process. The level of culture will increase and the creative abilities of employees will be enhanced. We have a constitutional and moral responsibility to provide jobs for all our citizens. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in financial markets, where the liquidity of the market is closely related to the confidence operators have in the reliability of securities payment and settlement systems, the inefficient operation of the latter can represent a source of risk for the markets themselves. Reliable payment and settlement systems require a clear legal framework, rules and procedures to govern securities holding, transfers, lending and related payments, as well as the imposition of constraints on these securities. Clearing and settlement, essential components of all securities transactions, are therefore fundamental to the smooth functioning of integrated financial markets. In any case we should note that, despite the increased demand for foreign securities, not only does the EU’s infrastructure for clearing and settlement for cross-border transactions remain fragmented to a high degree, but there is also an excessive and certainly not controlled incidence of costs at cross-border level. In any case, in order to attain specific objectives, it is necessary to know what the operational situation in the sector is, in order to make the appropriate adjustments. There are two main reference markets: the United States and Europe. The USA has opted for the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation, which incorporates both clearing and settlement systems and is overseen by a single managerial body, whose proven efficiency has led to substantial cost reductions. The European model with as many as 20 CSDs is fragmentary, benefiting from the fact that competition is only limited to securing new areas of influence. There has never been a price war, as market liquidity is controlled by a single active player. From an analysis of the existing framework and from the thorough research undertaken by the Giovannini Group, it is clear that there are a range of technical, legal and taxation barriers at the root of the high costs and inefficiency. Removal of the technical barriers has to be our prime objective and can be considered easily attainable. Standardising information technology languages and paper-based documentation does not, in fact, require a particular operational effort. There would certainly be greater difficulties in harmonising legal and taxation rules. We should aim to achieve the ambitious objective of creating a single securities code, which would constitute a real guarantee for operators; but it would certainly be difficult for Member States to reach agreement on this issue, for delicate and sensitive reasons linked to the differences between legislation governing property rights, company law and insolvency law. Therefore, the creation of this code must be considered a long-term objective. In the short term, an information statement should be drawn up which would provide market participants with a guide to the differences between the laws in the Member States. With regard to taxation barriers, the difficulties do not stem only from the differences between systems but also from strong resistance to change and harmonisation by some Member States. Starting with the need to reform the post-trading environment, with the aim of eliminating confusion between infrastructures and functions and destroying existing natural monopolistic positions, there must be an arrangement for core settlement services managed for legal purposes as a user-owned service governed by the rules of non-profit status. This option would guarantee market integrity, ease of access to the service by users and effective supervision with regard to operational risks. There could not be any distortions of competition, because this guarantee stems from the fact that the services user participates in managing the body. Innovation and technical progress could also be attained since the arrangement in paragraph 11 of the report specifies that non-profit status comes after allowing for necessary investment needs. Separation of core services and value-added services is considered vital. The latter could, in any case, be performed by central depositaries but with separate structures, including from a logistical point of view, by means of shared or supervised companies. The clearing and settlement service encompasses guarantee, margining, clearing, settlement and regulation activities. A quick read through reveals that these are all public utility services. The added-value services offered by banks or structures separate from depositaries are securities lending, collateral management, cash management, corporate actions, income managementand taxation services: all purely commercial activities. In conclusion, it is also vital to have strong cooperation between the States in order to ensure adequate supervision. . I voted for the Villiers report on the own funds of banks, for it is imperative for Directive 89/299/EEC, which regulated the matter a good 11 years ago, to be updated and supplemented. I endorse the criteria of greater prudence adopted, but other aspects of the matter must also be taken into consideration, particularly the solvency ratio, which is a weighting factor according to the type of counter-party used to estimate the credit risk associated with a bank's assets. In Italy, this is currently fixed at 8% – 7% for banking groups – of the weighted risk assets, for both cash and off-balance-sheet items. What is totally unacceptable is for the supervisory authority – the Banca d'Italia – to have the power to establish a higher minimum requirement under certain conditions. You do not change the rules during the game but before it starts. I therefore agree that there should be a higher weighting coefficient – 10% for example – but it must be totally fixed in all cases and all circumstances. Therefore, Article 53 (d) of Legislative Decree No 385/93, which deals with precisely this point, must be revoked, as all the Members States' laws which provide for changes  must be revoked. –  Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Berenguer Fuster, on the excellent work he has done. Over the last decade, financial investment has become increasingly important both quantitatively and qualitatively, geared towards better resource placement and anticipated cost savings. Thanks also to developments in information technology, there has been a clear, decisive process of globalisation and concentration, which has brought considerable benefits in the development of investments and productive activities but has also generated crises that have destabilised banking and financial systems in developing countries. The negative effects have spilled over into production and employment, and sometimes into the living standards of broad sections of society in these countries. While it is true that concentrations have developed the economic systems of certain countries, which, through their tried and tested stability, have been able to benefit from the opportunities they bring, it is also true that concentrations should be able to favour initiatives to strengthen international support, which must aim at introducing reforms to encourage integration in world trade. Often, however, market mechanisms, which encourage and sustain concentrations, show obvious limits and can create severe hardship in that part of the population that remains excluded from the advantages that such situations can create. If economic concentrations are based only on the share golden value, or the optimisation of the value of the company, they will come into serious conflict with other market operators and consumers. In banking markets, where the dominant trend is towards concentrations and the exclusive pursuit of profit, the consequences of this are easy to see. The Cruikshank report – this is the second time I have reminded you of it, Commissioner – considers that the British banking market has a degree of concentration that is bad for the consumer. The fact that the four largest commercial banks hold such large market shares leads to disproportionately high charges and prices and a poor supply of products and services to private and business customers. –  Mr President, I am deputising for Mr Mauro, the author of the resolution. The escalation of the conflict in northern Ugandais reaching unprecedented levels and is causing a genuine humanitarian crisis. Approximately a million people have been displaced in Acholiland and in the Lango and Iteso regions. At the beginning of the year, the Acholi Religious Leaders Peace Initiative seemed to have achieved unmatchable results. A number of meetings were held between the religious leaders and the rebels; a presidential peace commission was even set up with many responsibilities; the LRA and the government called for a cease-fire. In May, for the first time, the Consultative Group Meeting discussed the crisis in northern Uganda as a national issue, and there were substantial contributions from civil society. Despite these small rays of hope, the conflict has been deteriorating severely over the past two months. For the first time since the start of this distressing affair, rebel activity has intensified and has carried on for over six months, breaking the traditional mould of cycles of violence which initially took the form of brief raids rather than permanent conflict. Recently, it has become clear from the LRA’s order to attack Catholic missions that the Sudanese Government has renewed its support for the LRA, providing sophisticated heavy armaments. Joseph Kony, the leader of the so-called Lord’s Resistance Army, spoke again last Monday, telling his men to kill mercilessly anyone who comes within range, including the elderly and children, to spare only pregnant women, to kill priests and missionaries in cold blood and to beat up nuns in cold blood. The crazy orders were given over the frequency used by the network of two-way radios belonging to the Catholic missions of northern Uganda. Indeed, the rebels are able to use the same two-way radios in their internal communications as those used by missionaries for they have plundered numerous Catholic parish churches in recent months. Moreover, despite the fact that the humanitarian situation is getting worse and that rebel activity is clearly on the increase, the Ugandan Government has announced that the situation is still under control. In this regard, I must highlight the prodigious efforts of the European Commission to help these people, not least through monitoring in the field. At this confusing time, marked by violence, terror and war, the real danger is that of resorting to weapon-power as the only way of addressing this serious situation. Moreover, there is also the risk that the international community and citizens will hide behind indifference, treating this disaster as the concern of the Acholi people alone. We have to take notice of the cries of the people and the leaders of Acholiland: sadly, their story has already proven that peace can never be achieved by forcing a people into submission. Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, the Parmalat collapse and other worrying financial crises before and after it have revealed the limitations of the rules governing our financial markets. As happened in the United States, on the crest of the  affair, and in the United Kingdom, with its 34 defaulting scandals, in Italy too we immediately realised the need to introduce strict legislation in order to protect savers more effectively and – in a broader sense – to attempt to limit the discredit that would inevitably affect the financial market involved. In these cases, though, we have to put aside emotional reactions and, in particular, we should not allow ourselves to be swayed by the appearance, however serious, of what has occurred and by the incentives that may result from it. Similarly, I do not support exceptional measures, such as the possibility of a monitoring super-authority, because we would run the risk of creating a new body that would have difficulty in making any additional contribution to an environment that must be restructured. The measures in force have to be well implemented and certainly need to be redesigned. The bankruptcy law could also play a key role: the  principle and the ‘suspect period’ should also play a role in both extraordinary administration and controlled administration. This would reinforce the protection of creditors. Furthermore, the credit system, which is certainly not entirely blameless in the case of Parmalat, would not be the sole arbiter of events. These would, however, be subject to the assessment of a designated judge. So, to continue on the subject of far-reaching proposals, we would need to increase the information available on all financial products available to the public, both in  prospectuses and in communications and to eliminate the problem of the patchiness of the information on the different financial products available to the public. Transparency monitoring must be extended to everything, including banking and insurance products offered to savers, which contain a management input. The introduction of stricter areas of incompatibility to protect the independence of inspection bodies will be inevitable. In the case of bond-issuing firms, however, more needs to be done: documents binding on the company will need to be issued, stating what the company will do, when it will do it and what investment products will be used. Above all, though, in addition to accounts auditors, we will need to put in place a figure that has already existed in the United States for ten years: the ethics officer. This figure, who acts as a form of listener, or identifier of signals, must be able to pick up on even weak danger signals that escape the attention of analysts, who focus on evidence. When reading the work of the ethics officer, it is possible to identify not only management results, but  on the outside  the extent of the firm’s reliability. . –  Before I explain whyI voted for the report in question, I would like to draw your attention to Mr von Wogau’s major contribution to Parliament’s work as a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I know he will be just as valuable as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. My heartiest congratulations! The process of integrating the financial markets involves reshaping all the structures which supplement financial services. In this context, it becomes even more important to take note of experience gained in markets outside as well as within Europe in terms of organisation, operating procedures and the functioning of control measures. In particular, to this end, we need to introduce new telematic technologies to increase the efficiency of the securities markets. In fact, the use of these new instruments, which both allows the level of competitiveness between securities operators to grow and makes it possible to manage large volumes of transactions according to time frames and procedures which, until a few years ago, were unhoped for, has helped to raise the ‘quality’ of prices on these markets and to reduce brokerage costs. The implementation and integration of the securities markets must, however, be based on a more effective decision-making process – I refer here to the Lamfalussy report – which safeguards the interinstitutional balance while fully respecting all the levels of democratic control established and in operation. That said, the first thing we need to do is speed up and streamline the legislative process, adopting legislative acts at first reading where possible. Secondly, there must be an increase in transparency and provision of information, for these are an essential basis for the development of an integrated European securities market. The third improvement needed is consistency and clarity of procedures for both consumers and investors. We therefore need an information system to facilitate transactions, from the placing of orders through to payment. Lastly, it is vital to regulate the role of securities brokers. This should take the form of regulation of brokers and regulation of activities, in addition to establishing a new balance of supervisory powers in which Parliament’s powers are equal to those of the Commission. –  Mr President, I express my sincere appreciation of Mr Radwan’s motion for a resolution regarding pre-contractual information for home loans. There is no doubt that work to reorganise and tidy up this rather confused sector has now begun. Unfortunately, some debatable if not downright censurable behaviour has been seen on the part of European lenders. The importance of the work that has been done lies essentially in the fact that for the first time a collection of indications and regulations is not the result of self-regulation, as has often happened in the past. I refer to the inter-bank agreements on conditions, in which the banks dictated the rules more so as not to have to face fierce competition within the sector rather than to set up transparent contractual schemes to supply to the end-customers, but by means of an agreement, even though a voluntary one, between banks and consumers’ associations. Also important is the choice of transparency and publicity laid down in Articles 21, 22, 23 and 24 of the Code itself, and especially Article 25, which states that an offer made over the Internet should be made in accordance with the European scheme and in compliance with all the provisions and indications that are laid down. In conclusion, I should like to point out that this code will require further additions and corrections. The practical stage will be to give the necessary indications. I am just troubled by the fact that the committee did not accept an amendment I tabled to set a limit – the total amount – on the loan to be registered. My reason for this amendment was the fact that in some Member States the credit institutions triple the loan figure registered compared with the amount actually lent, which is doubly harmful to the consumer: first, there is a question of image, in that, to an inexperienced person the debt might appear to be three times as large as it really is; and secondly, a matter of costs, particularly notarial costs, which are calculated on the registered amount of the loan. I hope that in future this aspect can be reconsidered. –  Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Lehne's proposal for a directive is genuinely relevant and well-structured, but I would like attention to be paid to three points of the directive: the extension of the definition of alleged money laundering offences, remote identification of clients and the confidentiality of information received. With regard to the first point, the joint document puts forward a text that defines organised crime, including in the definition of alleged money laundering offences those related to organised crime. I fully support this extension. However, I cannot support the further extension to other offences – fraud and corruption, at least serious – as the existence of seriousness is made clear insofar as these offences affect the financial interests of the European Union, if, therefore, they are . The reference to ascertaining the seriousness of the offence is, indeed, not very clear. Secondly: the text proposes, once again, a procedure for the remote identification of clients, now that the provisions introducing a complex procedure which is difficult to implement have been appropriately removed from the text of the previous common position. The new wording appears exaggerated, while the issue of standards to be related to the different practices in use should be the responsibility of the individual countries. On this point, the concern is that specific, binding European standards might be issued, requiring the application of rigid procedures which are difficult to implement. Thirdly: the confidentiality of information received. All too often, the information provided on suspect operations is not treated as sufficiently confidential, which is clearly dangerous for the person who has provided it. Therefore, stringent confidentiality rules on information on suspect operations need to be issued. In this connection, excessive passing on of data for information purposes, for example, in banks to intermediary bodies, or in the professional categories to auditors, is eliminated. – Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like, if I may, to wish Mr Duisenberg success in the future that is on a par with all that he has managed to achieve in the European Central Bank. I will not wish you good luck in your fishing, Mr Duisenberg, because, as an Italian from the south of Italy, I am afraid that it might bring you bad luck. I would also like to congratulate Mr Blokland, whose report focuses on the responsibilities of the European Central Bank in Europe and the responsibilities that it will have to take on with a view to the imminent entry of the ten new countries into the Union. According to the terms of the Treaties, the primary goal of the European Central Bank is to define monetary policy in Europe and to ensure price stability through monetary policy. Personally, I am convinced that, irrespective of this principal responsibility, the European Central Bank must play a more effective role in the economy, using moral suasion methods, not least, which have yielded surprisingly successful results in the field of bank supervision. I tabled an amendment, which was not accepted in committee, which sought to provide a more detailed, comprehensive definition of the Pact. It would have read as follows: a uniform interpretation of the Stability and Growth Pact must be achieved in order to avoid undermining the credibility of the euro area and thus the effectiveness of its monetary policy; considers that the European Central Bank must confirm to the Commission that the Pact is being implemented with sufficient flexibility as to promote growth. Indeed, the Pact was created not just with a view to achieving stability but also in order to boost growth to acceptable levels. Growth as a key objective of the Pact can also be achieved through investment in large-scale work and financial undertakings in the field of research, outside public spending. Of course, this option must not become an excuse for abandoning the rigour of public finances and must be supported by a totally sustainable fiscal policy, as implemented so successfully in the United Kingdom. The recently approved draft Constitution includes provisions governing the European monetary institutions, or rather, the role of the ECB and the national central banks and their sensitive relationship. Over this period, some national central banks have feared radical resizing with subsequent centralisation of power in Frankfurt. They did not want the European Central Bank to become a fully-fledged institution on the grounds that this would jeopardise the independence of the monetary institution, but I am sure this was just an excuse. This deadlock between the European Central Bank and the national central banks has caused confusion, and it is only in Article 29(3) that we have a comprehensive definition: the European Central Bank shall have legal personality. Looking at the other decisions made in this field, it has to be said that, in Europe and Parliament, as elsewhere, the compromise approach has taken root which often, far from bringing about convergence of differing positions, generates, in many cases, uncertainty and confusion regarding the matter in question. As a result of these compromises, a complicated method of voting has been decided on for the members of the Bank’s Governing Council, the printing of banknotes has been split willy-nilly between the different monetary institutions, and, above all, a decentralised system has been preserved which will become overcomplicated and ineffective with eastward enlargement. To sum up, over and above the Convention’s decisions, we need to ask ourselves whether, in order to take into due account the guiding role of the European Central Bank and the interests of the individual national central banks, we should not be taking the path of dividing up the responsibilities between centre and periphery, with consequent specialisation of the national central banks, which would have to supervise minor financial institutions too. I hope that many of these points will be clarified at the Intergovernmental Conference. –  Mr President, a warm welcome to Professor Monti, who appears to be deep in thought at the moment. My heartiest congratulations to Mr Konrad on the huge amount of work he has done and the considerable effort he has put into this report. The main aim of the new regulation is to increase the level of competition across the board with a view to improving consumer well-being and safety and the functioning of the internal market. In order to achieve this last goal, it will also have to provide protection for dealers and encourage the small and medium-sized businesses operating in the European automotive sector. We therefore agree that the interests of consumers should take first place, and there are a huge range of possibilities within the common market. Increasing competition between sales distributors and in the after sales market and increasing competition in the manufacturing and distribution of spare parts must therefore be seen as positive. We must not, however, overlook the fact that, if the measures laid down in the new regulation are interpreted too rigidly or too loosely, they could reduce legal certainty and lead to forms of concentration in distributionlocation, in after sales services and in spares production, causing a considerable number of small and medium-sized businesses to disappear from our market and impacting negatively on employment and the expected benefits for consumers. For these reasons, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has adopted an extremely favourable stance; it endorses the idea of a transition period until 2005 and a review clause. Naturally, we hope that the other groups will take the same stance. The implementation of the idea of protecting consumers by reducing car prices, the effectiveness of which is, as yet, completely unproven, will have to involve an evaluation of what happens during the transition period. The necessary conclusions will be drawn from the results which emerge and the new regulation will then be applied accordingly. During that period, dealers will, however, have the opportunity to invest, taking into account any restructuring of industry, and this would, in any case, be less harmful than a regulation which might work against the consumer and which would certainly penalise a large number of small and medium-sized businesses operating in the car dealership sector. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Bösch on the report and express my appreciation of the firm stance he took towards those directly and politically responsible for the fraud who have been charged. A plea to Commissioner Schreyer: I urge you not to try to play down the Eurostat case which remains one of the most alarming and awkward episodes that the European Parliament has ever faced. The enormous economic damage caused has not and may never be quantified. Let us move onto the report. If what Mr Bösch wrote in the report were to be implemented, then we would live very peacefully in Europe. Financial interests would hardly be protected; legality would be the key element in all European issues. If, however, the established principles, which are summarised in Recital G, which state, and I quote, that ‘the Commission committed itself to a ‘zero tolerance’ policy with regard to fraud and irregularities’, are not translated in practice, then everything that is written will not make the immense effort poured by the rapporteur into his report worthwhile and no specific objective will be achieved. Now, given what has come to light on Eurostat, would it not have been more appropriate to put an amendment tabled by myself to the vote in committee – although, I am glad to say, Mr Bösch explained this issue – which reads, and I quote: ‘Can only condemn all the cases in which OLAF has been unable to conclude its investigations within the allotted 9-month time limit, in particular the Eurostat case, which has been suspended for over three years and in respect of which a timely investigation could have broken a chain of events which has now been exposed as anything but straightforward and of which certain elements are under investigation by the judicial authorities’? This amendment will be put to the vote and, I hope, adopted tomorrow in this Chamber. At the same time I do not want what I have said about OLAF to be misinterpreted, for it cannot become a scapegoat for fraud perpetrated by others. This is why OLAF must be able to continue to receive its funding, which must be sufficient to strengthen the staff, in particular the investigation officials. I completely agree with the rapporteur in Article 33(1), when he calls on OLAF to inform the European Parliament in detail if an investigation takes longer than the prescribed nine months. Coming back to the Eurostat case, which disturbs and irritates many of us, I feel I can say that I certainly agree that our positions should be cautious, but, at the same time, we cannot accept an arrangement, which would mean that it would be seen as counterproductive to place the European Institutions in jeopardy over this case. We should be discussing and debating something else: in the Eurostat affair, were the contracts concluded properly or did fraud come to light? If, as would seem the case from reading the reports, many contracts were concluded without lawful signatories, if there were conflicts of interest that led to certain, illegal economic benefits, if documents were systematically lost that should have been subject to control and news published outside that was intended solely to facilitate negotiations, if more than 50% of contracts were concluded with a single bid, then, clearly, damage running into millions of euro has been done to the European Community and this aspect must override everything else, including the preservation of the European institutions. –  Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mr Pérez Royo is to be welcomed for the balanced approach and technical competence employed in its preparation. A subject like the taxation of savings certainly ought to be dealt with in such a manner because the field is so sensitive. The Commission and the Council have considered at least three hypothetical paths to take in their time, often changing their minds and their strategies. They are: a withholding tax, the exchange of information, and both possibilities together. In the end, they opted for the exchange of information and, after a heated debate in the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs, this was limited to natural persons. As shadow rapporteur I fought for the exclusion of legal persons from the directive, because a business, whatever form of company status it may have, is obliged to draw up a balance sheet and have it approved. As soon as investments in savings products appear on it, the income they generate must consequently be indicated in the accounts. Therefore, extending the communication requirement to legal persons would be not only superfluous but certainly counterproductive, since it would overburden the communication in a manner that is surely avoidable. The problem of third countries also needs to be addressed. Should any of them fail to accept the mechanism, it would undermine the whole directive because, if at the time of implementation the conditions in the Member States and third countries were not uniform, it would be highly feasible for substantial amounts of savings to be transferred in real time. The conclusions of the Feira European Council unequivocally state that sufficient reassurances must be obtained from third countries regarding these or equivalent measures so that the adoption and implementation of the directive may be decided upon no later than 31 December 2002, by unanimity. Another important aspect concerns the Member States that are not subject to the communication requirement for a period of seven years: Belgium, Austria and Luxembourg. These States, however, as laid down in Amendment No 14 to Article 10 paragraph 1, will be required at the end of the transitional period to fully participate in the automatic exchange of information. In the way the directive has been drawn up, all attempts to maintain anonymity have been blocked. It will also be necessary to make it work smoothly and fluently, keeping a watchful eye open for any laundering of dirty money. Without this opportunity to launder money, national and international terrorism will find it hard to survive. From this perspective, my Amendment No 6 to Article 3 paragraph 2 (b) also seeks to establish the full personal identity of all contractual relations made prior to the directive as soon as they show any kind of activity. In this regard, it would be desirable to have a European personal data centre to check all major movements of money that may have – or are just suspected of having – connections with international terrorism. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, this proposal for a directive seeks to introduce safety and quality standards to regulate therapeutic activities based on the use of human-derived tissues and cells, which are carried out in Europe every year and now concern hundreds of thousands of patients. The sector is also certain to expand, not only in the traditional field of transplants – for example, corneal and skin grafts and heart valves – but also, as a result of advances in biotechnology, in those of reconstructive surgery, reproductive medicine and the treatment of disorders such as cancer, diabetes and Parkinson’s disease. It is therefore undoubtedly of interest to research centres and European firms and must be allowed to develop. Nevertheless, respect for ethical imperatives is vital in the use of tissues and cells of human origin. The proposal for a directive in question therefore lays down high safety and quality standards relating to substances of human origin, in order to protect health. However, these ethical imperatives need to be still better defined. The first issue concerns the need to ensure complete safety from the point of view of health, in order to prevent or reduce the risk of disease transmission in the case of human tissues and cells from third countries too. Secondly, respect for the human body must be assured with regard to removal from both living and deceased donors. In this connection, the requirement for informed consent on the part of the donor, supplied in a specific form either by the donor or by next of kin is particularly important, as is the prohibition of the removal of cells or tissues from foetuses originating from the voluntary interruption of pregnancy or from cloned human cells. The third issue concerns respect for privacy and protection of the confidentiality of the information collected when tissues are removed. Donation must be anonymous as regards both the donor and the recipient (except for the requirements regarding traceability). Personal and family data may not be disclosed to third parties (for example, employers or insurance companies); this is also to avoid the risk of unjustified discrimination. The fourth principle concerns the fact that donation is unpaid. This represents a voluntary act of human solidarity which may, however, be appropriately encouraged by specific measures and by proper information on the part of the Member States. This requirement must be retained, not least with regard to imports from third countries. On the basis of these considerations, I believe that, over all, the directive can be said to represent a step forwards in the harmonisation of Member States’ legislation, allowing Member States to provide greater protection for the health of the European citizens. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, consumer protection is an important objective and we need to prevent dishonest traders benefiting from the internal market in order to mislead citizens by offering them defective goods. Moreover, dishonest traders take advantage of the new technologies provided by the information society, thereby undermining consumer confidence in -commerce. These problems do not only closely concern consumers, but also businesses and the economy as a whole. In order to protect consumers, therefore, we have to establish a body of clear, effective rules and also strengthen cooperation between national consumer protection authorities, by promoting information exchange and providing for the possibility for authorities approached by consumers to request the assistance of an authority from another country. It is precisely this second, important objective which the proposal for a regulation being discussed and voted on by Parliament this week seeks to secure. Current national systems are not capable of preventing and suppressing cross-border exploitation and existing informal networks face obstacles of a legal nature regarding, in particular, difficulties relating to the flow of information from one authority to another and even the lack of public consumer protection authorities in certain Member States. Moreover, the regulation lays down precisely the Member States’ obligation to designate a public consumer protection authority, which will be part of a European network. The authority of one Member State may request help from other members of the network in order to investigate possible infringements, to receive information and thereby to end exploitation by dishonest traders. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has provided some further guarantees in the proposal for a regulation, in order to avoid possible abuse of power by the national authorities, to protect confidential information held by businesses which is not strictly necessary to the investigation and to ensure that the requests for cooperation are reasonably justified and do not pointlessly impede traders. The proposal for a regulation, moreover, provides for procedures which are at times a little cumbersome and onerous for consumers and the public administrations, and risk making the costs far higher than the loss or damage suffered by consumers. This is why we oppose certain provisions laid down by the Council and the Commission which would greatly complicate the system, and if we have to adopt the regulation at its reading before enlargement, we shall ensure that it is reviewed, on the basis of experience gained, five years following its entry into force. . Mr President, Commissioner de Palacio, ladies and gentlemen, the very high and ever-expanding volume of trade within the Union, and movements of persons on a similar scale, are constantly increasing the likelihood that individual citizens or firms might become involved in cross-border litigation. The cases concerned in this instance are those in which the parties are domiciled in different Member States and which, for that reason, pose certain difficulties. The risk in such situations is that the persons involved might refrain from asserting their rights because of the obstacles that they would encounter in going to law in a foreign country, with unfamiliar legislation and procedures, and the costs that they would have to bear. In many cases, moreover, including for example small claims litigation, legal expenses can even exceed the sum at issue. In other words, a genuine internal market is created by the existence of a common legal area, to which private individuals and firms can have access, without being penalised, regardless of the judicial systems of the different Member States. This is the background which has given rise to the two Green Papers covered by the Commission’s initiative. The first Green Paper deals with the issues of the conversion of the 1980 Rome Convention into a Community instrument and its modernisation. Conversion of the Rome Convention into a Community instrument, as is now being considered, is an additional measure following on from the procedure previously employed for the Brussels Convention and it is certainly useful in that it ensures direct application and uniform interpretation by the Court of Justice. The body of rules should be completed in the future by the Community instrument called Rome II, contained in the recent proposal for a regulation on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, for which Mrs Wallis is the rapporteur. The need to form the three instruments into a single whole is plain to see and implies not only that the Rome Convention should rapidly be converted into a Community instrument by adopting the necessary regulation, thus making the body of private international law rules homogeneous in terms of source, but also that the goal at a later stage should be codification in the true sense so as to enable the ‘Communitarised’ provisions of Brussels I, Rome I, and Rome II to be grouped together systematically. As for the innovations to be incorporated into the Convention of Rome, first of all we could introduce the principle to ensure that, when the law of a third country was chosen, the primacy of mandatory Community law rules, for instance to protect the weaker party (employees, consumers), would at all events be guaranteed.  Furthermore, the scope of the Convention rules should be extended to include insurance contracts, and the provisions on consumer and employment contracts and electronic commerce transactions need to be clarified in some respects to enable them to be coordinated with Community legislation in force. The second Green Paper presented by the Commission, on establishing a European order for payment procedure and on measures to simplify and speed up small claims litigation, is also of the utmost significance. It is a matter of no little importance for many European citizens and firms, in particular SMEs, to be sure that they can recover claims, and do so rapidly, especially when litigation has cross-border implications because the debtor is domiciled in a foreign country or the judgment has to be enforced abroad.  The added value of procedures to achieve that end, which would have to be laid down under a Community regulation for the reasons already set out regarding the Rome Convention, would lie in the fact that judgments would be enforceable throughout the Union without resorting to exequatur, thus making it possible to recover huge quantities of uncontested claims or settle cases in which creditors would otherwise be fundamentally disinclined to proceed. The regulation will also need to define the entire order for payment procedure, specifying the requirements applicable to creditors’ claims so as to establish a common measure affording certainty as to procedure and, where possible, costs. Some further comments should be made about the European order for payment. The first question to answer is whether the procedure should be confined to cross-border cases or could also be applied to litigation between parties domiciled in the same country. Bearing in mind that not all Member States have a special procedure of this type in their procedural law and those procedures that do exist differ substantially, it would be desirable, in order to avoid unequal treatment of creditors in different categories, for parties to have the option of using the order in domestic litigation as well. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank my colleague Mrs Fortou for the work she has carried out, work that was carried out with great endurance and great determination, precisely because the fight against counterfeiting and piracy must be one of the European Union’s priorities. In fact, creativity, which is one of the main factors of competitiveness in our economic system, is being prevented by counterfeiters because they are affecting the industrial and intellectual property rights. These rights ensure that creativity is adequately rewarded. Often, counterfeiting and piracy also end up affecting consumers, who are forced to purchase goods of a quality inferior to the original. The damage that they cause not only affects the individual holder of the right but the whole of society. The directive on the application of industrial and intellectual property rights is therefore an important instrument in combating the phenomenon and must be quickly adopted before the accession of the new countries, where counterfeiting and piracy are particularly widespread. The text negotiated with the Council, which Parliament should widely agree to, is a balanced compromise that should enable the directive to be adopted in just one reading. The current European and national legal framework on industrial and intellectual property is being respected. The conditions to effectively protect it and to more actively combat illegal trade are being created. The compromise rightly provides for the most important provisions of the directive to apply only to commercial practices. We cannot, indeed, plan to punish those who download music from the Internet just for personal use. A request for information from the alleged counterfeiter by the person declaring that a product is counterfeit must be justified and proportionate and should only be made by order of the judicial authorities. Furthermore, the directive does not influence the rules on confidential information and the treatment of personal data or the right not to testify against oneself. It specifies the administrative and civil sanctions that, directly affecting any illegal economic activity, have direct consequences on prohibiting counterfeiting. These sanctions should indeed be dissuasive but should also be gradual and proportionate to the crime committed. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after many years of working towards an effective Community patent, we must make it clear that a number of issues still remain to be resolved: the language regime, the differences between the role of the national patent offices and the role of the European Patent Office, and the legal arrangements. Despite repeated invitations from the Heads of States and Government and successive European Councils, most recently the Barcelona Council, the situation has not improved. We encountered the same problems in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market over the language issue. After lengthy debate, the committee opted for the language regime already used in the context of the Community trademark, under which applications can be filed in any of the official languages of the Community. However, the applicant has to specify a second language as well, known as the language of proceedings, which can be one of five languages – English, French, German, Italian or Spanish – the use of which he accepts as a possible language of proceedings, particularly opposition, revocation or invalidity proceedings. If the application is filed in a language which is not one of these five languages, the Office will arrange to have the application translated into the language indicated by the applicant. As I see it, this is not an ideal solution. For reasons of economy, it would have been preferable to use just one language, English. Moreover, European industry has called for this. However, that has not proved possible and so we look forward to the introduction of the Alicante model, which, although perhaps not the best solution, is the only solution possible. As regards the legal arrangements, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market proposes that first instance jurisdiction should be at national level, such that appeals can be made to national courts with experience in patent cases as first instance courts for Community patent litigation, while second instance decisions would be the responsibility of the European Chamber for intellectual property. This is a compromise solution. We would have preferred one single, centralised first and second instance jurisdiction, which would have ensured greater uniformity of interpretation. However, the opposition was extremely strong on this matter too. Lastly, assurance is given that the national patent offices will be able to continue to play an important role in the procedures for granting the Community patent. In other words, in our opinion, the solution adopted is not completely satisfactory, but it does mean that this complex issue is closed. I believe that, in her heart of hearts, even the rapporteur, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi – whom I do, of course, congratulate on her work – shares these concerns. However, Parliament has merely a consultative role in this procedure, it is not colegislator. We therefore give the report the thumbs-up, in the hope that the Council of Ministers will be able to come to a swift agreement without hiding behind any excuses. –Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on environmental liability provides for a balanced approach which will apply pressure on operators to avoid contamination and to remediate damage whilst suggesting only a light regulatory touch in order to achieve this. Any fundamental changes to this proposal for a directive would have produced an unworkable and impractical solution to what is already a complicated subject, and I feel that the work carried out by Mr Manders and others in committee represents the great possible convergence in view of this constraint. In fact, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has not made any fundamental changes to the Commission’s approach, but it has clarified a number of essential principles. The directive does not apply retroactively. The permit and 'state of the art' exceptions should be retained. There should be mandatory liability but not compulsory insurance – the guiding principle of the directive is that the polluter must pay for environmental damage caused by their actions. An awareness of the financial implications of such damage will also lead to greater efforts to prevent environmental damage occurring. The polluter pays principle therefore aims to address remediation and incentivise prevention. A mandatory financial security regime might destabilise this relationship: operators would know that their financial liabilities are covered by an insurance policy, fund or levy and, as a consequence, the incentive to prevent damage is removed. A mandatory system of financial security might well be described as the 'insurer pays principle' in that the risk of liability has been transferred from operator to financial security provider. We all must be socially responsible about protecting the environment because it is inherently a finite resource. Operators need to recognise that there are consequences to their actions and that they will pay for any damage that they cause with intent or by way of being reckless. The 'polluter pays principle' is acceptable on these terms. Thanks to the reasonable approach advocated by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, a Directive will have been created that reflects the interests of both industry and the environment. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market outlined in the recommendation tabled by Mr Manders - whom I thank for the enormous amount of work he has done - takes the right line. Indeed, it does not make any substantial changes to the Council’s approach but clarifies a number of its fundamental principles so that the directive can be implemented in a more uniform manner over Union territory. Given the impact that the regulation will have on industrial activity, we deem it necessary to remove the asymmetry between the legislation of the countries of the Union so as to avoid distortions to trade or to competition between companies. However, a number of principles must be clearly stressed: we need to avoid the concept of ‘operator’ being extended to parties responsible for monitoring activities. The identification of merely potential damage is contrary to the principles of legal certainty and could therefore lead to lengthy disputes which cannot be addressed with the technical and scientific instruments available. The operators responsible for the damage must have the option of taking the necessary measures themselves and informing the competent authorities in due time. Intervention on the part of the authority, where either preventive or remedial measures are concerned, should be limited to cases in which the operator is not prepared to act or is unable to do so, in that it is not acceptable for the authority itself to be given the power to take the unquestionable decision of adopting such measures itself. Clearly, therefore, such intervention only becomes necessary in the case of what are known as ‘orphan’ or ‘public’ sites, or in the event that the operator fails to act. These provisions must be laid down so that decisions are not left too much to the discretion of the Member States. The text of the common position states that the individual Member States may, at their discretion, grant exemptions for exceptions where damages are caused by an emission or activity or event allowed in applicable laws and regulations or in an authorisation issued to the operator or which was not considered to be harmful according to the state of scientific and technical knowledge at the time when the emission was released or the activity took place. As regards the apportioning of the burden of costs where the damage has been caused by more than one party, the Council has given each Member State the right to provide for both joint and several, and proportional liability, according to the national legislation in force. The apportioning of joint and several financial liability, in addition to being in blatant conflict with the ‘polluter pays’ principle, would certainly make it more difficult, if not impossible, for operators in production sectors to calculate insurance premiums and other financial security. Liability and related costs must, therefore, only be apportioned on fair, reasonable bases, with the requirement, moreover, that each operator performs a part of the remedial operation which corresponds to that operator’s share of the liability. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Mr Mantovani, who is prevented from being with us today by air traffic problems, I would like to make a few observations on the Commission communication with regard to the difficult concept of the linkage between relief, rehabilitation and development. I would like to thank Mr van den Berg for his excellent work, on which a broad consensus was achieved at the vote in committee. First of all, I feel that it is vital to improve complementarity, coherence and the cost-benefit ratio, for these are necessary to bridge the gap between the various stages of international assistance, the famous grey zone, and, more generally, for the effectiveness of the Union’s development and cooperation policy overall. Indeed, the multilateral financial institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the various UN agencies and the Paris Club need to be more involved in this process. Moreover, it would seem appropriate to distinguish between internal and external coordination action in order to establish who does what at both European and international level and also at the level of the individual Member States; this would make it easier to plan and therefore make us more effective in implementing rehabilitation and development initiatives. The contribution of our group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, focuses precisely on the need for greater complementarity, particularly as per Amendments Nos 15 and 16 tabled by Mr Mantovani, and for better coordination of the different actions, in order to obtain greater effectiveness and improved results in the action linking and coordinating relief, rehabilitation and development; in particular, there is a call for appropriate coordination and  evaluation methods, budgetary control and less bureaucratic interference, to provide a greater guarantee of Union development aid reaching the countries in crisis, and therefore precisely the people who genuinely need it, effectively and without time wasting or needless duplication or overlapping of effort or financial resources invested. –  Mr President, Commissioner, the internal insurance market has to be completed and the barriers that still exist in the industry removed. It is no coincidence that the European Parliament has called on the Commission to submit a proposal to bring motor insurance rules up to date so that the right of European Union citizens to live, travel and work in any Member State of the Union without any problem may become a reality. The draft fifth directive on civil liability motor insurance will certainly have the effect of modernising and improving European rules in this sector. Above all, it will be easier to take out a short-term policy covering a temporary stay in another Member State and getting short-term insurance for a vehicle purchased outside the owner’s Member State of residence. Consumers will thus find it easier to purchase a car in any country in the Union where the best terms are available, and that will help to stimulate cross-border competition. In addition, the directive seeks to update the limits on the minimum cover that should be enjoyed by motorists. This will allow motorists to change their insurance more quickly. Another objective is to improve protection for pedestrians involved in accidents. Lastly, the directive allows citizens to obtain a statement from their current insurers regarding the accidents in which they have been involved so that they can negotiate a new contract with another insurer. It is essential to avoid setting the minimum cover at levels that are too high and beyond any reasonable need. If this were to happen, the cost would inevitably be passed on to the consumer through considerable rises in insurance premiums. The effects would be felt especially badly in certain countries, including Italy, where increased premiums are already giving rise to a particularly heated debate. Not to mention the new countries joining the Union, where the citizens and the insurance companies would be called on to meet costs out of all proportion to their economic levels. My assessment of the proposal is therefore positive; we must be careful, however, not to go too far and produce results that are counterproductive for those same citizens whom we wish to protect and help. . –  Madam President, Commissioner Liikanen, the new regulatory framework for telecommunications replaces the Community system which opened up the national markets in Europe and brought the era of monopolies to a close. By way of justifying the revision of the Community telecommunications framework, the European Commission stated its intention to reduce the regulatory burdens according to the liberalisation objectives achieved on the basis of the model still in force. The aim was, in fact, to secure greater confidence in market forces in order to boost the competitiveness of the European market and encourage investment in the emerging markets, facilitating the provision of innovative services. The purpose of the revision of the prevailing model should, therefore, have the aim of gradually moving the telecommunications market on from its liberalisation phase to a phase of genuine, consolidated competition. The relationship between the development of the regulatory framework and the dynamics of the markets should be pursued using a forward-looking approach which favours competitive conditions, ensuring the rapid distribution of innovative services, in order to provide direction for the market and the future exclusive application of the procurement rules which are gradually replacing  rules. The new model should introduce a transitional phase that fosters this transition to a telecommunications market that can be managed in the same way as any other economic sector in strict respect for competition rules. This end can be achieved by a body of  rules harmonised at European level which are characterised by the fact that they are temporary and exceptional; in other words, the regulation that we are discussing and approving  must provide for it to be abolished when a sufficient level of competition has been achieved. These  rules must be kept to a minimum as regards requirements and strength, in order to ensure that intervention is proportionate to the regulatory objectives. In view of the flexibility of the new model, which very prudently extends the scope of intervention of the international regulatory authorities, the main thrust of the new regulatory framework must be the need to guarantee the supervisory power that the Commission has laid down in respect of the national authorities, in order to ensure correct interpretation of the new framework and thereby avoid distortion of the competitiveness of the European market between geographical areas. In fact, with the absence of a centralised authority at European level making it possible to assess the ultimate consistency of national decisions with Community objectives, the new regulatory framework is in danger of not achieving its objectives. To this end, Mr Daems, Commissioner Liikanen, allow me to illustrate an amendment which I tabled together with 51 Members from different political groups precisely to Mr Paasilinna’s directive. Mr Paasilinna has worked very hard on his proposal on the framework directive on telecommunications. This amendment seeks to make things clearer for operators, to avoid fragmentation in the application of Community law in the various Member States and to ensure the development of a genuine internal telecommunications market. The adoption of my proposal would facilitate harmonisation, which can only be achieved by establishing unambiguously defined power allowing the European Commission to intervene to guarantee that the application of Community law is coherent with objectives and pursues the same goals in all the Member States. Harmonisation and centralised power are the basis for the development of the pan-European telecommunications market. This what the operators want, this is what the market wants, Mr Daems, Commissioner Liikanen. The market wants the development of a pan-European telecommunications market, whereas the short-sightedness of the national authorities often tends to slow down that process of development in this phase; that is why I tabled this amendment which, I hope, will be taken into due consideration by the Belgian Presidency, the Council, the Commission and this House. –  Mr President, Commissioner Solbes, we need more Europe, and the Stability Pact is a tool for building Europe. It is a complex and anomalous tool, not found in textbooks and universities; in fact, it replaces a true economic and budget balance policy on a federal scale. But in order to be effective, such a tool must be credible and based on definite rules and obligations that are respected by all. Changing the rules during the difficult process of convergence, less than one hundred days before the birth of the euro proper, would therefore be a serious mistake. The Stability Pact must not, therefore, be relaxed or have its deadlines or targets changed; any such approach would be merely short-sighted opportunism and disastrous for the building of Europe. The Stability Pact should, rather, be strengthened, improved and made more efficient; targets that only refer to budget balances are no longer enough. Budget balances are a necessary but not sufficient objective, because there will be a growing need to aim at quality in public spending and the medium to long-term sustainability of public finances in the individual euro countries; in this connection, it is sufficient to think of the pension deficit. Commissioner, even a Stability Pact interpreted in the most responsible, far-sighted manner possible would do nothing for the credibility of our currency if there were not a massive acceleration in the process of completing economic union at the same time, with greater genuine convergence, greater social cohesion, greater development, greater liberalisation, and a greater market for services and energy. Though we need therefore to comply with and value the Stability and Growth Pact, as much attention should also be devoted to the subject of the Lisbon agenda. Unfortunately, the Stockholm European Council was a step backwards in this respect. Commissioner, Minister, for the sake of the euro and our Europe, let us avoid similar steps backwards in future. –  Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union has a single currency but it does not have a common economic policy. It has a single currency but it does not have a genuine economic policy authority. It has a single currency but it does not have a genuine federal budget. Until yesterday, the Union had the Stability and Growth Pact: the wonderful substitute – yes, a substitute – for a non-existent economic policy, for a non-existent proper redistributive budget, for a non-existent economic policy authority, while even the single currency and the monetary area are far from perfect. As you know, President Prodi, the credibility of the euro is linked, amongst other things – above all, I would say – to the Stability and Growth Pact and to its capacity to force the Member States to produce responsible budgetary policies: budgetary policies, I would point out, which they themselves have proposed and which are accepted by all their citizens. Of course the Stability and Growth Pact is subject to constraints – that is clear and we are all aware of it – particularly at a time of recession such as that the Union is currently experiencing. Nevertheless, Mr Prodi, it is one thing to find an intelligent way round these constraints, but it is quite another to actually remove them, to change the rules half way through the game, leaving a free-for-all. What concerns me, President Prodi, are not the intelligent changes – which are always welcome – but the danger that budgetary policy will actually be renationalised. This, President Prodi, is the most serious matter, the most perilous danger of all, for we could end up endorsing the policies of the irresponsible countries and penalising countries which have implemented responsible policies, the countries which have placed their trust in us. Rewarding the grasshoppers and punishing the ants will not help the euro: it will do nothing to further European integration at this very sensitive point in its development. This is why the European People’s Party will, through its members taking part in the Convention, acting in accordance with the mandate they received at the recent Estoril Congress, propose that the Convention should constitutionalise the basic principles of the Stability and Growth Pact. I am sure you will agree with me. And please, beware of fair-weather friends who arrive by your side at the eleventh hour! –  Madam President, I would like to thank Commissioner Patten for his words, but I cannot fail to express my deep regret at the fact that Parliament has not dedicated a wide debate, which could maybe have ended with a joint motion, to a matter which is so important and so affects our societies and public opinion. It is strange that a summit with an agenda which is so sensitive to global governance issues should receive such severe, groundless criticism. Clearly, there has been a problem and there still is, not just of communication but also of democratic participation, not the participation envisaged by the violent antiglobalisation protesters but the participation that we see in national parliaments. The market will not be the only subject of discussion at Genoa, then. Quite the contrary: in actual fact, the agenda is wholly centred around the fight against poverty. Fighting against poverty means, first and foremost, employment and the fair redistribution of the wealth derived from the process of globalisation. As an economist, I would remind the antiglobalisation protestors that wealth has to be created before it can be distributed. However, if Europe's goal of full employment is to be more than just the egotistic vision of a wealthy Community, it must be translated into a global objective of accompanying the process of liberalisation of free trade with active employment policies which will help to produce active societies and thus lead to social inclusion: by overcoming what is known as the digital divide, by building up human capital, by promoting self-employment. Making employment a priority must lead to the widespread introduction of minimum levels of protection for all people. Fighting against poverty means improving cooperation between the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the ILO and the WTO in order to integrate macro-economic stability and development policies with social policies. As you can see, a great deal has changed since the summits of the mid-'70s. As Commissioner Patten pointed out, on the first day of the Genoa Summit, the Heads of State and Government, who will be the guests of the Italian President, will meet with the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, the President of the European Commission, Mr Prodi, the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Verhofstadt, the Director-General of the FAO, the Director-General of the WTO, the Director-General of the WHO and the President of the World Bank, and also with the Presidents of Nigeria, South Africa and Algeria, who launched the support and development plan for Africa. The G8 Summit is certainly an exercise in global governance which can and must be fine-tuned but, already today, its foundations are much wider than those of the summits held during the seventies and eighties. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr van Velzen on his work. I agree that it would be appropriate to proceed to a new phase in the liberalisation of the electronic communications sector which will mirror market developments and constantly evolving technology.  The new legislation should affect all the communications infrastructures and related services by means of recommendations and codes of conduct and other vehicles. If we keep the regulations to a minimum, this will ensure proper coherence between market developments and the reference legislative framework in addition to promoting investment by operators, improving the quality of the services and, therefore, giving the consumer greater benefits. In addition, considering the substantial increase in the number and size of operators and the changing conditions of competition over the market as a whole, the national regulatory authorities should, henceforth, start to use their competences, moving on from an  approach to regulation to an  approach. In a scenario where the issuing of licences is genuinely liberalised, no prior approval should be required by the regulators before operators can enter the market unless this is strictly necessary. We agree with the Commission that, in this second phase of opening up of the market, while full competition has not yet been achieved, it would be appropriate for there to be specific legislation governing the activities of telecommunications companies which used to have monopolies and whose economic and financial strength is such as to influence the market. When competition is consolidated and the free telecommunications services market has fully developed its potential in the various sections, it will be possible to reduce the sector rules and the special obligations for the operators dominating the market which I have just referred to.  The Commission will have to be careful not to create inequalities between the different national product and service markets. Moreover, in the longer term, a joint public and private action appears essential in order to make it possible for all people to use all the telematic services of a distinct social nature, such as telemedicine, teleworking, electronic public administration services and electronic commerce. These objectives are an integral part of the well-known e-Europe initiative, which is a universal service based on a development philosophy which is social as well as economic. –  Mr President, Commissioner Lamy, Mr Sasi, the Millennium Round will, out of necessity, have to promote forms of cooperation and integration between the World Trade Organisation, the International Labour Office, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. This is so that the liberalisation of trade will be accompanied by renewed stability in the money market, by wide-ranging policies on human resources, by social protection networks and by widespread compliance with the fundamental regulations on work. Only in this way will it be possible to remove the mutual accusations of social dumping and protectionism.  With the solemn declaration of June 1998, the 178 Member States of the ILO undertook to promote the four fundamental rights of work: the right of association, respect for the minimum working age, the prohibition of forced labour and the suppression of discrimination. Out of this came an indirect definition of fair competition so that social development will not be compulsorily suppressed for competitive purposes. More recently, the express hope came out of the G8 meetings in Washington and Cologne that the ILO’s solemn declaration will be implemented.  Support policies must therefore always prevail over sanctions. In this regard, Europe can constitute a reliable point of reference, and this is also thanks to its model of the social market economy. The Commission, backed by Parliament, must therefore commit resources to assisting developing countries and transitional economies, construct modern social protection systems and efficient job markets. This is the ideal, political message which the united Europe will be able to take to Seattle, confirming the traditional function of dialogue and integration between developed economies and developing economies or those undergoing changes. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, constitutional reform and economic reforms in Europe today are merely two sides of the same coin. Competitiveness, social cohesion, solidarity across generations, the valuing of human resources, solidarity towards the countries in the many southern parts of the world are not just many objectives within our reach, but they are also the founding values of the best episodes in our peoples’ histories. Today, we are faced with a great opportunity: to combine the constitutional process with the will and the need for reform – reform as the steady, day-to-day implementation of that work in progress that is, and will be, our formal Constitution. The conditions, both positive and negative, are all there to be turned into opportunities: an integrated internal market, as Mr Prodi has mentioned, the largest and richest in the world; low interest rates, but also – a negative point that can be turned into an opportunity – still high unemployment; job markets that are still too inflexible; and insufficient infrastructure. The action plan you have proposed, Mr President-in-Office, for developing the great trans-European infrastructure networks through public and private investment, is a step in this direction. As is well known, investment in infrastructure produces higher returns through Keynes’s multiplier, greater competitiveness, and more economic and social cohesion in the north, south, east and west. The same may be said for the objective of making our welfare systems sustainable through reform, not by taking away but by giving more with fairness (not least to our children), guarantees and security. Infrastructure investment and welfare reform, however, require an efficient, flexible, well-structured labour market that is well regulated and fairer. Mr President-in-Office, you won the Italian elections with a modernising programme, just as the programme you have presented today is modernising. There is no doubt that you will carry them both through. I wish you good luck and success in your work. –  Mr President, Mr Duisenberg, Mr Solbes, I share the satisfaction Mr Radwan expressed in his report regarding the importance of the objective of maintaining price stability, which the Central Bank achieved by bringing the rate of inflation in the euro area down to minimal levels. Furthermore, I share the rapporteur’s satisfaction in noting that the ECB has stood by its commitment to publish information regularly on the financial variables in its possession, the economic forecasts and the econometric models used as the theoretical basis for the monetary policy it has implemented. It is important that the principle of transparency is affirmed and it is a good thing that the ECB has set communication standards which could be an excellent point of reference for the activity of the central banks of the individual countries. However, let us guard against interpreting the principle expressed in Article 105 of the Treaty too freely, for Article 108 reads: “When exercising the powers and carrying out the tasks and duties conferred upon them by this Treaty and the Statute of the ESCB, neither the ECB, nor a national central bank, nor any member of their decision-making bodies shall seek or take instructions from Community institutions or bodies, … or from any other body.” The monetary policy is certainly a lever which is capable of determining a country’s economic performance, for better or for worse, but it is for this very reason that we must not give the ECB responsibilities which cannot fall within its remit, either under the Treaty or in the light of the basic rules of economic policy. The poor development of the macroeconomic variables in some of the countries of the euro area has been linked, verysuperficially but incorrectly, to the creation of the single currency: imbalances and unfavourable trends in some countries cannot be blamed upon the euro and still less upon the Central Bank’s monetary policy, but they can be attributed to the absence of an unambiguous economic policy in Euroland and the lack of structural reforms at the level of the individual national systems. – Mr President, a positive acceleration is taking place in European political integration. The process of enlargement is a reality, just as the convening of the Convention is a reality; countless steps forward have been taken in the field of justice, as they have in the field of foreign and defence policy. However, this acceleration in political integration is not being matched by similar acceleration in economic integration, that is, in the creation of the markets on which political integration is based. It is strange, but we are witnessing a veritable inversion of the Community method. Indeed, from coal to steel, to the single currency, it has all been a succession of steps forward towards the building of a common home, starting with the foundations and working our way towards the roof. Now, while we are rushing to build the roof, we are extremely behind in the creation of markets which are crucial for the lives of the Europeans. There have been too many delays, too many failures, too much egotism: from electricity to gas, from telecommunications to Galileo to the Community patent. This lack of synchronisation between the physical dimension of the markets and the metaphysical political dimension could cost the process of European integration the citizens’ support. Indeed, the costs of losing political sovereignty are perceived to be too high and the benefits for businesses and consumers are considered to be too low, too limited. It would be as well, in order to avoid this danger, for European integration to be resumed according to the method of our founding fathers, free from contemptible egotism and without calculated, unnecessary leaps forward. –  Mr President, the commitment of the European Union, repeated in the Schwaiger report, to the creation of a permanent labour forum between the International Labour Organisation and the World Trade Organisation on issues related to trade, globalisation and labour is the only way to accompany the liberalisation of commerce and trade in general with respect for fundamental labour rights, without slipping into egotistical, hypocritical protectionism or unfair, self-destructive competition. In this respect, the bilateral agreement that the United States has signed with China to prepare the way for China to join the World Trade Organisation must be regarded by the European Union, aside from as an important contribution to the multilateral process, also, and above all, as a fundamental opportunity to monitor the substantial importance that human rights have and will have regarding the opportunities afforded by a market that enjoys such enormous potential as the Chinese market.  Let us remember, in this regard, that the 174 member countries of the ILO which, with the solemn declaration of 1998, undertook to comply with the four categories of fundamental labour rights, even where they did not ratify the conventions, are, in the main, also members of the WTO. Now, since the international bodies are what the Member States want them to be, it is legitimate to ask these same States to behave in a consistent manner throughout the fora. The desirable entry of China, which the European Union is also actively negotiating for, will certainly make the WTO more representative and will extend the potential ability to realise global free trade that is also regulated. Nevertheless, that does not mean deluding ourselves that many of the problems regarding fundamental rights in China have now been resolved or are being resolved, nor ignoring the fact that, in the past, the United States itself has had double standards regarding the request for the social clause to be complied with. It is, however, better that it is possible for the attempt to affirm these rights to be made within the walls of the international institutions, rather than in bilateral fora, according to what is convenient at the time. –  Mr President, when the situation heats up, we have to keep cool heads. It is pointless, therefore, at times of crisis, to think of what Europe could be but is not, and throw everything away on this bitter contradiction: throw away 50 years – as President Prodi said – of intelligence, unity, peace, admirable institutional structures and positive results. The Europe which it is possible to have is the current one and therefore let us not feel ashamed to talk of Lisbon, welfare, the labour market, energy, telecommunications, task forces, the Stability Pact or the Convention but let us move forward. This is the only path there is: we are condemned to following this path. One final point: I feel deeply offended as an MEP, as a European and as an Italian by the irresponsible tolerance which Mr Cox showed for the placards held up by left-wing fellow Members in this Chamber. While ‘Stop the war’ is understandable, it is completely unacceptable for placards with the words ‘Stop the killers’ to be displayed in this Chamber. In Mr Cox’s language, ‘killer’ means ‘murderer’. The United States and the United Kingdom liberated my country 60 years ago, and gave it back democracy and freedom. For the past and for the present, I simply say ‘thank you’ to the United States and the United Kingdom. –  Mr President, many things have already been said which I think can be summarised in this way: either the macroeconomic dialogue is sheer hypocrisy, hiding the lack of a real economic policy for the Union, and so it is completely useless, a mere imitation and a waste of time, as other Members have already said, or the macroeconomic dialogue is something real and substantial, and so there is hypocrisy on the other side and they are trying to use flimsy words to hide the danger, to my mind, of a trend towards State intervention in the European economy. What does macroeconomic dialogue actually mean? What could it mean? According to the sacred texts of the economy, it means conciliation and policy on revenues, which Mr Della Vedova has just reminded us have been around in Italy for some time, with the results he emphasised. So macroeconomic dialogue and policy on revenues basically come down to wage policy and pay moderation policy? Let us just admit it! A group such as the European People’s Party – Democrats cannot agree with this because its aim is the free functioning of the market, which leads to the free distribution of revenues, starting with workers’ income in particular. Workers’ income must be linked to productivity, and not to coordination strategies of varying degrees of obscurity decided upon by others.  Furthermore, who are the participants in this macroeconomic dialogue? The Council? The States? The Commission? The European Union? The European Central Bank? Well, when free traders see the Central Bank in this group they go into a state of shock – a Central Bank can never be part of an assembly of this kind, never! If, in fact, the Central Bank tells the truth, it commits harikari, so to speak. If it does not tell the truth when talking to the other participants – as indeed it should not because the Central Bank should do otherwise – then it is telling lies and wasting time. Then there are the social partners. Well, these four participants are a highly dangerous mix which, on the one hand, is trying to eliminate Europe’s real problem, which is the lack of a real economic policy and, on the other hand is doing its best to clog up the system with negotiating games of varying degrees of obscurity, and to hell with unemployment and to hell with the market.  Just one more point. Cologne had based its hypothesis for an employment pact on three pillars, but too little is said about the third pillar, the liberalisation of the markets. –  Mr President, the fact that my seat is directly opposite yours has not helped me to attract your attention from the start, but never mind. The European Union is in need of structural reform, as we have heard, and reform of the labour market is a structural reform that will be included in the Spring Summit, preceded by Thessaloniki. However, Mr President, the labour market and welfare systems are two sides of the same coin: if one goes well – the labour market – then so does the other – welfare systems – given that the labour market finances welfare systems and vice versa: if the labour market does not go well, then neither do welfare systems, and Commissioner Solbes starts to have problems. If, on the other hand, the labour market changes – owing to either regulatory reasons or market reasons, or both – then the welfare systems must also change, because they must reflect the changes occurring in the labour market. This is why, Mr President, Mr Yiannitsis, we also need to launch a strategy for welfare systems, similar to the one we applied, some years back, to the labour market under the Luxembourg Process: national plans, consensus on common objectives, transparency, the so-called three pillars, what was not yet called open coordination but which is now referred to in this way, and so on. We have to synchronise the two systems, we have to synchronise the two reforms, we have to synchronise the labour market and welfare systems. Therefore, open coordination, obligations and evaluation of the Stability Pact are all aspects that must be clearly defined and quantified at the Spring Summit, if we want to meet the Lisbon Objectives. –  Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Ahern for her work on highlighting the importance of promoting energy efficiency. Greater energy efficiency will mean less consumption in the medium-term, safeguarding renewable energy sources, less dependence on energy imports as well as less environmental pollution.  I would like to make two points on the draft recommendation for second reading, keeping in mind that the SAVE programme is aimed mainly at strengthening research and the exchange of know how, as well as monitoring the results achieved in the sector (Article 2), despite the limited financial resources.  My points are that firstly, as for today’s discussion on the proposal to set the improvement of energy intensity of final consumption at 1.5% a year – via an amendment to Recital 15 and to Article 1 – I think this goal is certainly ambitious but not very realistic. It is also harmful for the users who have successfully, and with notable efforts, reached the targets set out in the SAVE 1 programme (1991-1995).  As regards this, I would remind you that efficient energy use in the short-term costs firms as much as it does final consumers. So we need to carefully evaluate the objectives for improving energy intensity in final consumption. We might risk burdening our production apparatus with costs that will cause our firms to be less competitive with regard to other international competitors who are not bound by these obligations. Staying with the aim of making our production system competitive and efficient on a global scale, I will now move on to my second point. I would like to remind you that it is not always effective to promote efficient energy use using extremely restrictive, even intolerable legislative instruments and standards. Saving energy is a complex process, one which needs to develop gradually and is geared to gaining technological and economic knowledge for firms and users alike, but this will take some time.  So, I welcome the awareness campaigns on subjects linked to saving energy, but I do not see how adopting excessively prescriptive legislation could be the most efficient way of improving the energy intensity of final demand. I refer here to Amendment 1 to Recital 11, to new Recital 15a and to Amendment 6 to Article 1.  To conclude, in the light of these remarks, I would like to draw your attention to the need to carry out long-term cost/benefit analyses on the introduction of measures to reduce energy intensity of the final demand. These are very complex areas where the market and its regulations come into conflict with public welfare considerations. These analyses are possible in transparent markets where the individual end user – firm or consumer – can always assess to what point energy use is efficient thanks to gradual progress in the technological and economic spheres, sustained by sound research and as much information as possible. –  Mr President, Commissioner, the aim of developing a coordinated strategy for modernising social protection in the European Union is certainly an admirable one. Just as the launching of a European convergence strategy on employment and labour market policies at the Luxembourg Summit was commendable. The labour market and social protection are, in fact, two sides of the same coin, that require harmonised policies and rules. If the labour market functions by means of certain levels of employment, flexibility and salary discipline, then it is impossible for the welfare state and social protection not to function, and vice versa. Until recently, the European countries fixed, it could be said in an autarkic way, the rules governing the functioning and financing of the two markets. Budgetary and exchange rate policies were responsible for maintaining internal and external stability. With the Maastricht Treaty and the single currency, budgetary discipline became tighter and recourse to devaluation ceased as a means of endeavouring to restore marginal competitiveness. The structural and economic differences of the various countries cannot, therefore, be rebalanced through budget deficits and trade. That being the case, in the absence of complete labour mobility inside the Union, and without a redistributive fiscal policy at federal level, it is left to the labour markets and welfare systems to provide what degree of flexibility there is to remedy both structural and economic disequilibria, the so-called exogenous asymmetric shocks. And therein lies the paradox. Political and monetary convergence in Europe unavoidably entails convergence of the respective rules of the game in the labour market and welfare systems. But, at the same time, the single currency and the absence of labour mobility, as well as of a redistributive fiscal policy, force us into a situation of non-convergence in terms of salaries and welfare, in order to compensate for the differences in marginal productivity at national and regional levels. Hypocrisy and fine-sounding words such as convergence, benchmarking, modernisation and concerted action are not going to extricate us from those contradictions. Either the European Union becomes a genuine federal state with a genuine redistribution of resources, genuine free movement of workers and therefore – but only at that point – common labour and welfare regimes, or it would be better not to deceive and be deceived by hopeless paths to convergence which sound impressive but which, in reality, only cause harm, above all to the most vulnerable. That is something we would do well to recognise. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the takeover bids directive is an essential legislative act for the creation of a genuine internal market in corporate control: a legislative act which can give a decisive boost to the virtuous circulation of capital in Europe. Virtuous circulation means more productivity, more growth, more competitiveness and - I am addressing the left-wing Members here - more employment. After 14 years, we have, at last, reached our goal and it is a pity that the Commission is not taking up the positive aspects of the present compromise. In recent months, there has been intense cooperation between the Council and the European Parliament, and that is a positive result in itself. Europe certainly needs positive results right now! This is, of course, a compromise, the only compromise possible at the present time. We would have liked more, especially my country, whose legislation on the matter is very advanced and open; we would have liked a directive creating a genuinely level playing field with the passivity rule and the total neutralisation of defensive measures. We tried, but it was not possible because of the opposition of certain Member States which are now probably hiding behind so-called social amendments. The compromise to be put to the vote tomorrow reflects the state of European capitalism, which is still a mixture of small-scale and large-scale capitalism. However, it does provide proper protection of workers’ rights. Hence the opt-in/opt-out system as regards the level playing field. However, the undertaking is given to try again in a few years, with the useful sunset clause, when the time will be ripe because the financial markets will have favoured the companies which opt to be competitive. All we will have to do then is delete Article 11 A, make a few cosmetic adjustments, and we will have a new directive ready for the future. With this directive and the others which we are adopting in the framework of the Financial Services Action Plan, competitive companies, their governance and their balance sheets will be transparent. We have a great need of transparency, in view of recent cases such as the ,  and  cases. Companies will be encouraged to opt to be competitive by the fact that competitive companies will be able to refuse to be taken over by non-competitive companies. We have established the benchmark and we have protected it, which is better than a directive merely laying down transparency procedures such as that which exists in the United States. All in all, we can be proud of what we have achieved. . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a short space of time, the European telecommunications industry has, thanks to the impetus given to it by the Community institutions and the innovative action of the market, moved over from a system based on national monopolies to one based on general liberalisation. Market forces and new technologies have pushed this regulatory process forward, generating results in terms of competition and new operators coming into the market, which have in some cases exceeded expectations. The proposed revision of the current regulatory framework governing the telecommunications sector, currently before the European Parliament, consists, therefore, in laying down general objectives from which are derived the regulatory principles governing the new reference framework, basically with the aim of gradually moving the telecommunications market from a phase of market liberalisation to a phase of genuine competition. The approach to regulating the market should be geared to the future state of markets in which the conditions will be much more competitive and diversified, with the rapid spread of innovative services, and focused on the implementation of competition law, to replace therules applied on a case-by-case basis. This objective can be pursued by means of a body of  rules harmonised at European level, which are of a transitional and exceptional nature. In other words,  regulation must provide for its own disappearance once a sufficient degree of competition has been achieved, for excessive regulation is against the interests of the market. With regard to the content of the directive which is the subject of my report, Parliament has identified priorities through its Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. The definition of the term 'access': the definitions given in the Commission's proposal were extremely broad and the failure to define terms clearly could have led to disputes with the regulatory authorities. There is a particular risk of the rules and instruments set out in the directive being applied indiscriminately to extremely different situations, such as access for operators and users to end-user services, network facilities, system facilities, networks and roaming. Roaming warranted more detailed consideration. I do not feel that it should be seen as a form of access, given that it has different connotations according to whether what is involved is enabling a user with a subscription to a foreign operator's network to use a mobile service in a given country and vice-versa – what is known as international roaming – or enabling operators entering the market to use the facilities of existing operators in a given country until such time as they have installed their own networks, which is known as asymmetric roaming. The principle of light regulation: the report stresses the fact that light regulation and flexibility, central parts of the European legislation, must not mean 'anything goes', but must be a means of overcoming the problems of the current approach involving  regulations which have failed to keep pace with the times and with technological progress. The management of access and interconnection rights in fact requires a balance to be found between the rights of operators which are infrastructure owners to manage their networks and infrastructures for their own benefit and the rights of other operators, which are service providers, to access to essential facilities. Degree of competitiveness of the market: another point which required clearer definition was the assessment of the degree of competitiveness of the market. The achievement of a high degree of competitiveness is the precondition for reducing the role played by the regulation so as to enable its place to be taken by competition law alone, or, conversely, for subjecting operators that have been notified as having significant market power to regulatory obligations andsubsequent cost orientation negotiations. The definition of the ‘new significant market power’ is based on Court of Justice judgment and refers to a form of 'reduced' domination, since one of the features of dominance is to 'hamper competition', which is an  concept. The proposal for a directive applies the 'new' significant market power' or 'reduced domination' concept, which, its 'negative' feature of hampering competition having been corrected, leaves the field open to  measures. Obligations imposed on operators: national regulatory authorities may impose obligations of transparency, non-discrimination, accounting separation, access to and use of specific network facilities, and price control and cost accounting obligations on operators notified as having significant market power. The proposal also lays down arrangements for applying or revising the obligations deriving from the implementation of the current system and those deriving from the new regulatory framework. The first remark to be made regards the arrangements for imposing obligations on operators notified as having significant market power. In fact, notification does not automatically entail any obligations but the national regulatory authorities have to specify the obligations to be imposed on each operator that has been notified. However, the fact that an operator has significant market power does not always mean that it is misusing that power. When considering whether an operator does or does not have significant market power, national regulatory authorities should at the same time consider whether it is actually using that power before imposing obligations provided for in the directive. Lastly, environmental impact. An issue which is particularly close to my heart, as a local administrator apart from anything else, is reducing the number of masts in residential areas. Operators are increasingly being forced by technical requirements to install infrastructures which do not fit in with the landscape. It is the duty of the Community institutions, as well as national local authorities, to reduce this impact on the landscape and the environment as much as possible. It is the duty of all policy-makers, at all levels, while safeguarding the importance of competition in the telecommunications market, to find regulatory solutions which allow maximum use of the installations currently available, taking into consideration the impact on the landscape and the environment and the socio-cultural implications for the citizens. Then there are other points relating to the different taxation systems, in which area there is a call for harmonisation, and to the need for coordination by the European Commission. Taking all these considerations into account, we can only recommend the proposal for a directive, in that it seeks to stimulate growth in the sector, it will stimulate future investment and enhance the competitiveness of businesses, and, by increasing efficiency, will help to bring about a fall in prices and contribute to economic growth across the board. –  Mr President, I was hoping to address my questions to Mr Solbes, but I do not see him in the House, and so Mrs de Palacio or Mrs Diamantopoulou may answer instead. I should first like to make a request: please do not abuse the adjective ‘sustainable’. It is rather like those awful restaurants where they put cream or parsley on everything and in the end ruin every dish. ‘Sustainable economy’, Mrs de Palacio and Mrs Diamantopoulou, means absolutely nothing. It is just a nod towards the environmentalism of the Greens, towards the left with ‘solidarity’ and towards the right with ‘economics’. In short, a little semantic correctness would not go amiss. Let us now deal with some rather more serious matters that I have noticed. President Prodi has spoken of a single cycle of economic policy coordination – I am referring to point 2.3, b4) – and, indeed, only a single cycle is needed because the objectives laid down in the Stability Pact and the broad economic policy guidelines must coincide with those of the real economy, in other words the labour market and, above all, welfare. You realise that the labour market and welfare are two sides of the same coin. Well, while the labour market already has an implicit coordination process – the Luxembourg process – which has been making positive headway for six or seven years now, the same is not true for the more recent (as one might say) Laeken process for coordinating welfare action, which has yet to be put into practice. The two systems are unbalanced: much has been done in the area of close coordination on the labour market, while everything still remains to be done as regards welfare. My request is therefore that the two coordination processes be synchronised as fully as possible so that they then make it possible to fulfil not only Lisbon but the Stability Pact too. –  Madam President, I have to say that we welcome with interest, almost with some enthusiasm, the decisions taken recently which have now been included in these documents on public participation – one might almost say, playing on words, at least as far as Italian is concerned, ‘private participation’, for the word ‘public’ usually refers to public structures or institutions whereas, here, it is intended to denote the participation of the citizens, of associations – in this process: a process which is not new today but was already present in previous acts of the European Union and in the context of which an evaluation had been set in motion, within certain constraints, of transparency, of objectivity and of the citizens interest in environmental issues being dealt with in a certain way. We are now faced with something more, something different, and that is positive. Indeed, what is happening through this process? We hope that the impetus to act – starting before the moment of decision-making – will come via those who are closest to the region, to the town, to the environment, and that it will then be taken up, transformed and handed back down in the form of guidelines, requirements and, if necessary, constraints, regulated through these rules by those with the authority to do so. Basically, we must give the citizens the ability to act in a sector which does, indeed, concern them, which concerns even those who do not want to be involved, for the consequences of environmental damage affect the citizens first and foremost. I must point out, in conclusion, that it will not, however, be at all easy to harmonise the different national laws with European requirements and directives. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after congratulating the rapporteurs on their work, I believe that it is necessary to make some preliminary remarks. There was a lengthy debate on whether it was necessary, appropriate and right to introduce a reference to Christian values – or even to God – in the text in question and in the text that will be adopted. I believe that, over and above the formal aspects – and I would not be sorry if a reference to Christian values could be included – and over and above the terms used, it is important to note that the text that has emerged, and is emerging as it develops, respects these values. I believe that the text shows considerable respect for Christian values: respect for human life and respect for the dignity of human life are, indeed, points of reference on which there has been much work in the Convention. I feel it is important to emphasise that, over and above the actual words contained in the text, there is a reference to our history, to European life, that has, of course, been influenced by and associated with Christian values. The different stages in achieving a Convention, a Constitution, new Treaties, have, I believe, been useful. I am not a pessimist: on the contrary, I believe that the work that has been carried out, although slow, has, overall, been fruitful, even if there is still room for some more development. I often think of what Europe could have been like without the Institutions that there are today, and I remember what our continent was in essence 60 years ago. I must say, therefore, that what has been done – in terms of the direct legitimacy of the public, the quest for ways of achieving consensus and the management of the institutions and consensus – can be considered to be positive overall. Many people maintain that there is still a great divide between the institutions and the citizens. Perhaps these very citizens should be involved in the evolution of Europe to a greater extent; perhaps it falls to us to recognise rights and to ensure that, through an important principle – justified expenditure, effective and appropriate bureaucracy – the divide between the institutions and civil society can be bridged. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that there are certain specific weapons available for preventing the situation in the Middle East from continuing to deteriorate and even, on the contrary, improving it: the weapon of diplomacy, which has been tried, which has been tested, but which is no longer accorded sufficient respect because diplomacy often gives way before the clash of military weapons. The other major weapon which is, on the other hand, effective and non-violent – the weapon of the law of the economy, of aid to developing countries, of aid to the poorest communities – has certainly not been used enough, and this is because it has even, on some occasions, been rejected in the dialogue between the countries who were to receive assistance and the assisting countries. The response from this House must clearly, once again, be ‘No’ to weapons and ‘No’ to suicide bomb attacks, but also ‘No’ to tanks and ‘No’ to retaliation. Well then, what is the formula on which peace in the region should be based? Once again, it is a formula as old as the hills. Governments acting cooperatively within the framework of shared institutions and governments acting individually. The Italian Government has developed a plan, a proposal for economic aid – a sort of Marshall plan as it has been called, with good reason in my opinion, although there has been criticism of this – to the poorest country, Palestine. This is an important weapon which has not been used at all in recent years, although many States set aside considerable sums to help the peoples of the Middle East who were in most need of such assistance. What do I find most disturbing? I think it is the conditions of degradation in which countless young people live in the refugee camps in Palestine from the moment they are born to the age at which they can start work. These camps are extremely dangerous breeding grounds. In my opinion, certain Arab governments have failed to give their brothers sufficient help: on the contrary, they have done nothing but incite them and tolerated movements within these countries which have led to the consequences we have witnessed recently. Mention must be made of the United Nations, which has certainly played a role which has been exhausting, not least, and important but inadequate and, in any case, ineffective; an intervention force was needed and it has been called for on many occasions. In my opinion, reasoning, experience and history teach us how an intervention force can be employed effectively in this modern age, and yet no such force has been deployed. What initiative can Europe, the European Union, pursue? It can reinforce the thrust of the UN initiatives, particularly the initiative to establish what could be an intervention force separating the two opposing nations. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that mention must be made of the good work carried out in preparation for this debate, especially in view of the decisions to be taken later on by the Council and the Commission, as well as Parliament’s future input. We have witnessed the shattering of an illusion: the State, which, motivated by social ideals, should have achieved adequate regulation of basic services, has almost completely failed in its duty. The ideals of fairness, asceticism and non-profit making have fallen, unable to contend with such a weak market: this has led to abuse, an increase in wastage, privileges, bureaucracy and inequality and, at the same time, falling profits. As a result, we are turning back rapidly – it is to be hoped – to competition, to the market, to the prevailing interest of the consumer and also to the profit-making of private enterprise, which is no longer seen as a negative thing. Of course, some last strongholds remain: monopolies, oligopolies, dominating positions – as the previous speaker mentioned – and also the market, which has been controlled to a great extent by cartels on many occasions and continues to be so now. There are examples of this in Italy: we have two great structures, excessive, unjustified strongholds – ENEL and ENI – which have played a highly egotistical and, in some cases, parasitical role. We need to take appropriate action, not least to establish a direct relationship as regards both energy supply and the management thereof, with monitoring of transfers and measures and of the effectiveness of the product sold. I feel that this should be the subject of forthcoming European Union action. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the spirit in which Members have spoken in this House today, and also on previous occasions, over months and even longer, in addressing this issue. It is surely one of the issues which European and, I might say, world public opinion cares about most, as well as being one of the most important for Europe’s identity. There are arguments on which Europe has intervened effectively but which do not receive the general support of public opinion and the citizens. There are other, more specific and sector-based topics, on the other hand, which have received approval. This, however, is a general topic which has received the general support of the citizens. On reading the documentation relating to this procedure as a whole, on how it developed and how it is concluded today, I find a vagueness in many chapters and recitals, as well as in many expressions that are or will be binding on this subject. It is a vagueness that is quite common in acts of the European Parliament, the Commission or the Council, but which, in this case, could perhaps have been more fully corrected. My concern is not the delay in reaching the position that is emerging today in the report, but rather that more specific detail should be given regarding interventions, the form these take, controls and the procedures by which they are enforced, and the flexibility and dignity of the controls – in other words they should not be humiliating for the producer or the consumer. I think that, in this sense, we could have been more specific and, at the same time, more respectful of the rights of producers and distributors, but always, of course, in the consumer’s interest. For instance, I find that expressions such as ‘dangerous’ and ‘serious risk’ are insufficient; they could certainly be used in a standard or a regulation – at national or other levels – but, as these arguments are so delicate and liable to affect the daily lives of consumers and thus of society and the community, we could, perhaps, have been more explicit. As for the future, bearing in mind what I have said regarding controls, I think that the three-yearly report required of the Commission should be drawn up at shorter intervals, without waiting three years, so as to prevent situations from arising over the three years that need to be remedied with specific provisions. That is why I believe that this point may warrant further consideration. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rarely does a directive have such wide-reaching social implications as the one we are discussing today. It will affect millions of small businesses and millions of individuals who carry on economic activities, even though this may not as yet be apparent. In my opinion, the forecast, as it was established at the end of the negotiations between the Council and Parliament, is precise and essentially correct. A balance has been found which will certainly influence the relations between buyers and sellers significantly. It is a measure which facilitates the market, not one which places restrictions on it, although it does lay down rules – for rules are sometimes essential in order to maintain the free market – and it is therefore a positive preventive action which essentially protects the weakest: both those who are weakest financially and those who are weakest socially. There are some areas of Europe – including certain areas of Italy, for example – where a very successful company has a substantial, decisive, unambiguous influence on the market, which almost amounts to a monopoly. Clearly, this company influences not only prices but also time frames, including settlement periods. This is sometimes negative for those who need to work and are forced to have recourse to this company. The issue is that of equal conditions for public and private industry, which I see as a positive thing and which will affect, or, rather, will be a positive development for public accounts. In fact, you will be aware that public companies settle within a certain period, and this time limit means that it will no longer be possible for private companies who deal with the public sector to impose large, excessive burdens on public companies. Consequently, public expenditure will also be reduced. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I read the documents we are discussing today with interest and I noticed that Parliament’s request affects a great many sectors, maybe even too many. We want peace, and rightly so – the point has just been discussed – we want health, we want prosperity, we want efficient public services and we want social progress. Now, in my opinion, when you ask for everything – which it is always a good idea to do, just in case – the results are often unspectacular. I feel that we should carefully pinpoint the areas in which bilateral measures or Union interventions can be employed in the Mediterranean countries.   If we choose wisely, there are certain sectors which would undoubtedly yield good results. Firstly, local government, which needs to be knocked into shape through privatisation, which has already begun in certain countries, and the provision of technology. Then, the health services, which we discussed only recently, which need to be improved through staff training, with technical staff being trained locally and specialised medical staff receiving the input of the European countries as well. Finally, heightening the intensity of inter-programme exchanges, as is specified by the MEDA programme, which has so far failed to materialise. With regard to this programme, with which I had to deal in various different contexts in committee, I have to say that I was disappointed at the difficulty of obtaining information and also of reporting that information and its implications to Parliament. This Commission still has enough time: it has only been in place a few months, and so there is still time for it to invest energy in its work and to provide Parliament with more detailed information … –  Mr President, I will try to be brief, and I will not use all the time available to me but restrict myself to a short message. This morning, in this Chamber, one of the Members made the statement that without rules there is no freedom. But I feel that where there are too many rules, freedom can become confusion. It is my opinion that this measure is suffering from a surfeit of rules. Since 1964, a series of laws have been adopted on this subject. Some were implemented, but many were not. The application of some of them was deferred, and others were not adapted by the individual States.  Now, in all probability, some of the States are at fault in that they have not aligned themselves with certain directives. However, we have to ask why it is that this happens so often and in so many States. It is very likely that this is caused by difficulties in implementing the directives. The delays in the adaptation of national legislation may well be due to the expense and tedium involved, as well as the fact that the process is often unproductive. Therefore, the message I would like to convey is that where there is an excess of rules and regulations, and in this case there is an abundance of rules in the preparatory measures of this text, which, in essence, I approve of, when the sheer number of different texts makes implementation difficult, then application of the text is deferred and we run the risk of creating not only legislative, but also practical gaps: legislative gaps on account of overlapping competences and confusion of legislation, and practical gaps because it appears that, in many areas, there is clearly the risk of insufficient control, and there is therefore a danger that consumer policy will not be aligned either. –  Mr President, we are dealing with a consolidated budget, which is showing the effects of choices perpetuated over the years and which has not yet been dynamic enough. The major items have undergone some changes, but they are not yet at the level of a structure free of conditioning, which may vary in nature: there is national conditioning which, however, is acceptable in part, conditioning by sector, not to mention by corporation, which is less acceptable, and by lobbies, categories, individuals and structures. Budgetary language is not dry because it is made up of numbers but because it pays little heed to changes in society and its needs, expectations and hopes. The Union performs its major function not only through political and legislative acts, but also through investments, management and expenditure, which are becoming a means not so much to satisfy as to stifle high expectations. The wait for funding is becoming the strongest bond for many communities, not just local ones – funding which binds people together more than any other types of ideals or principles.  While we do not agree at all with some of the programming choices, we will, however, accept them on one condition – that expenditure is subjectively and overall, individually and collectively useful. But because of inveterate habit, it does not always appear to be like this. Just because there is unjustified management does not necessarily mean there is unlawful management. Taxpayers’ money can be badly spent in a perfectly orthodox manner. The Community’s expenditure is huge and there could be many benefits and beneficiaries. If this is not the case, it is often because Brussels seems distant from Europe and does not always know what is happening there, while those in charge of controls sometimes seem distant and uncoordinated or disorganised. Let us give them more means, as is repeatedly requested, and the results will certainly be significant. There is a great deal of confidence, but the choice of what is to happen is just as important. Finally, I would like to recommend a reduction in the Community’s bureaucratic impetus, reducing the number of officials who are inspectors in name only, committees, commissions, temporary transfers, obligations and regulations. We need more passion and transparency. As a new Member – and this is just one example – I approached the European Investment Bank, and I felt as if I were approaching a sanctuary for privileged, all-powerful fat cats who had been released from the rules of democracy and therefore from their obligation to citizens. .  Like all the Members in Chamber, I feel that the protection and safeguarding of human health are vital. I therefore consider that it is of the utmost importance to uphold the position calling for the introduction of both a minimum excise duty of 57 % and a minimum payment – EUR 70 – with the aim of increasing the sales price of tobacco. The measure is very important in that it will discourage regular consumers from using tobacco. Furthermore, it will have a preventive effect in that it will discourage those tempted to use tobacco for the first time from doing so. As I have already pointed out in a written question – reference number P-2140/99 – to the European Commission, I find it absurd that we should increase European financing and contributions to tobacco growers while, at the same time, declaring that we are working to combat smoking. I therefore call upon the European Parliament to support this measure and throw some light on the matter. Quite clearly, the proviso must be that the Member States, as Community bodies, also increase their endeavours to prevent, control and curb illegal trading and trafficking in cigarettes. –  I shall take the floor very briefly, Madam President. I respect Parliament’s wish, as it has been expressed, but I must also say that the self-determination of peoples cannot be called into question, even by the European Parliament.  The document is unfair both to Austrian Members of the European Parliament, and to members of the Austrian national parliament, and it smacks slightly of jealousy and political interests, but also of business. I do not believe that these signals will change the citizens’ indifference to Europe. The Austrian extreme right has been gifted an unwarranted present.  I very much welcome the position taken by the Italian Radicals; and I say this while making a clear historic and material distinction between Italian liberals and Austrian liberals. –  Madam President, a great deal has been said this evening on this subject. Each speaker has explained his position calmly and resolutely, and, indeed, I do not even want to use all the time available to me for fear of repeating what has already been said. Directive 86/609 laid down provisions which reflected the – as yet quite limited – understanding of that time. Over 15 years have passed since that directive, during which time I would say it has had hardly any effect at all, for every day we receive news not of progressive alignment with the directive but of ill-treatment of animals and unlawful behaviour. The States have to a large degree failed to comply with the directive; the whole of society – human society as well as, of course, the animal kingdom – has not felt protected. The report contains a number of very specific provisions on the behaviour of what are, indeed, major countries – Austria, Belgium, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom – which have behaved in different ways but, in any case, in such a manner as to justify the assertion that almost all the States have failed to comply with the directive for a long time. This failure to comply has taken different forms but it is still failure to comply. Few countries in the European Union have escaped criticism, and that may well be because they were not yet part of the European Union at the time in question and have therefore not been assessed. I believe that there must be an undertaking in this regard. The report’s proposals are certainly sound, the recommendations made by the Commissioner – although I feel she is a little overoptimistic – are certainly sound, but the important thing is for the legislation to be implemented, and so we need inspectors, we need monitoring, we need all possible endeavours to ensure that the directive is respected, even before we start to revise it. I cannot but vote in favour of the report by Giuseppe Nisticò. This is because for a long time all sorts of people from all walks of life have been warning of the need for Community standards to establish definite rules in this sensitive sector of the collection, processing, storage and distribution of blood and its derivatives. This is a sector where the extreme urgency of meeting great therapeutic needs must never be separated from considerations of control and prevention. Mr Nisticò has set out the arguments extremely well, drawing on the strength of his professional expertise. Those are the reasons, in short, that lead me to support the report in full and consequently to vote for it. – Mr President, I just want to say, in addition to casting my vote just now, that we need to attempt to make the concept of State aid totally clear. Today’s document addresses this subject – which has already been dealt with in the past – in a number of respects, it develops and analyses it and also welcomes in principle the decline of that aid during the period 1997 to 1999. It remains to address the issue of regional aid, the money that passes from the State – for regional tax income is not sufficient, at least in Italy – to the regions and from the regions directly to many bodies and companies, which thus break competition rules and distortthe market, particularly in respect of other companies which, for example, are not based in regions with a special statute, which are particularly favoured. –  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcomed the report as it was presented to us and I also appreciated the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the position to be assumed by Parliament with regard to both the approach taken by past regulations and the current approach adopted by the Commission and the Council. Clearly, this does not take away the fact that there may be – and in fact are – diverging positions, as there will be tomorrow when the vote reflects this, just as there may be approaches which comprise or support calling for amendments. It would appear that the Commission and the Council's line takes little account of the methods used to grow certain products with specific characteristics in a specific social environment – as one of the Members who has just spoken also pointed out – with regard to certain sectors: I refer to tomatoes for the processing industry, citrus fruit and also nuts. I therefore feel that certain subsidies have been particularly depleted, not only by the general fall in the euro which we have witnessed recently – in which regard it would be appropriate to take action before the situation degenerates into a dispute with the European establishment as a whole – but also with regard to the attitude to be adopted in respect of Mediterranean products. Totally justified protests and accusations have been made recently but, at Parliamentary level, there have been some proposals as well: proposals relating to the ceiling on financial assistance, proposals to standardise the benefits due to all producers' associations irrespective of the legal basis, a proposal – which, I feel, must be supported – to continue support for production for longer than the current three year period, and lastly, for specific products, in particular nuts, the proposal for a particularly fair assessment of the aid or subsidies to be allocated. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in illustrating the resolution proposed by Italian MEPs, I feel that it must be said that, for the second time in five years, we have experienced a natural disaster in the same region of our country, Italy. This has, on the one hand, allowed us to gain a deeper understanding of the issue, an understanding forced upon us by tragic events but, on the other hand, it imposes upon us certain burdens which are certainly not ours alone: they are not the burdens of one or more affected regions, they are burdens not only of the country but of the international community as well, so that solidarity is displayed and acknowledged at different levels. And it has been displayed, at least initially, at moral, political, economic and legislative levels. We expect the Commission to acknowledge the disastrous situation in certain regions in our country and to affect land rehabilitation, in collaboration with the national States, of course, but we also expect it to intervene with legislation to raise awareness at European level, so that the issue of floods and disasters, the victory of ill-omened nature over man and organised society – can in some way be changed for the better. –  Madam President, I feel obliged to support Mr Cappato’s requests on the assessment of the composition of the parliamentary group.  If the matter is not resolved, I think that there will be other Members who will not be taking part in the votes. I hope this will not prove necessary. –  Mr President, I must make it quite clear that I do not agree with the conclusions of my fellow Italian who has just spoken. However, I would like to join him in congratulating the rapporteur and his committee on their excellent work.  What conclusions can we draw from this report? Basically, that the positions of Parliament and the Council are poles apart. This has always been the case, but today we are formally recording it in a document: on the one hand, we have the Council, which maintains a particular line through the individual States of which it is composed and which makes recommendations on the basis of the decisions of those States and, on the other hand, we have the Community, or, rather, Parliament, which advocates a different, more harmonised, more coordinated and more homogeneous approach. I feel that this distinction is important: Parliament’s approach is more idealistic, optimistic and utopian, whereas the individual States are more concerned with practical issues and have to answer to their citizens, who are not easily convinced by hopes and illusions but are well aware of the reality of present conditions which, in many cases – both in Italy and in many other European countries – have resulted in uncontrolled immigration.  Therefore, in view of the security issue and the problem of migration, which has its roots in poor countries which are beset with problems, where individuals, groups and families need to find not only a means for self-expression but also a completely different, secure environment, I feel that it is essential for Community policy to be comprehensive. – Mr President, we need to speak our minds on this subject in the European Parliament, during the plenary sittings and in the committees, even if it is obvious that the debate must take into account the world of the culture, the legal culture and the placeswhere institutional issues are addressed.  We find ourselves dealing with some very serious events, which in the past seemed to be the norm. Today, something has changed, at least in terms of mechanisms, and especially as regards monitoring, but we are still not satisfied, particularly if debates are held in competent fora that go as far as to discuss a European Public Prosecutor, crimes, fraud, the misappropriation of funds and the disclosure of confidential information pertaining to one’s office at European level. I feel that we must clearly safeguard the Community’s interests, its image and its relationship with taxpayers, who are an indispensable and essential part of Community life. For this reason, it is right to look at the issue of safeguarding commoninterests, and to establish better links with legal systems within the individual States. In this respect, we are faced with the most sensitive issue: what role would a European Public Prosecutor play in relations with the individual national communities and their domestic legal systems? This issue needs to be explored further in both cultural and practical terms. Today, we run the risk of adding a new institution to the already numerous and varied institutions which exist within each country. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, irrespective of the vote we have each cast regarding this report, I feel that clarification is necessary, for there are very many – maybe not all but certainly very many – Members who are burdened by this fact of having three seats and particularly by the way our work is carried out alternately in Brussels and Strasbourg. There are problems of huge administrative costs, there are staffing costs which must not be underestimated, the level of organisation has fallen, which means disorganisation, and procedures are lengthy to administer; then there is concern, the result, in some cases, of anger and disappointment, on the part of the citizens when they are informed of this situation. These, therefore, are the reasons for our – differing but united – votes on the issue. Mr President, the transformation of the Parliamentary Forum on the agenda for the Naples Summit on 2 and 3 December into a Parliamentary Assembly will be an extremely significant political development, as the House has seen from the ACP experience. The Parliamentary Assembly is an instrument for political cooperation which both reminds the Member States of their responsibilities precisely through parliamentary measures and gathers strength for new measures. The next step in Naples must be swift action on the part of the Council to implement the decisions already taken during the Valencia Ministerial Conference, especially the initiatives based on culture and dialogue between societies – both bilateral and multilateral initiatives – in order to reinvigorate the neighbourhood policy which is the key to the balance and development of the Mediterranean area. The transformed institution will, moreover, have to adopt a working model for which we can all see the need. Our decisions must be put into practice for, in this area, we must admit that we have failed somewhat. If we consider the Barcelona process, Meda, Meda II and the Valencia Conference, and the past and present expectations raised by these developments, it may be that we have failed somewhat in implementing all the decisions taken. A great deal of work has been accomplished but, without a doubt, there is still some to be completed, and the Assembly is clearly the right body to verify whether we have observed and achieved the objectives we set ourselves, particularly as regards the promotion of democracy and the rule of law, for a genuine, coherent, effective Euro-Mediterranean Partnership must fully incorporate not just the social and economic dimensions but respect for and promotion of human rights as well. Point by point, we would like to mention a number of developments that must be included on the agenda and seen as priorities. Firstly, a programme for supportive cooperation between the two shores of the Mediterranean in the fight against terrorism and international organised crime. We need to introduce specific measures to stem this flow of – often forced – migration, which is a tragedy for mankind. Secondly, we need to verify the forms of development of the section provided by the EIB for the Mediterranean and the Middle East as an instrument for supporting the goals set by the new strategy, with the financial participation of other Mediterranean countries; I would point out that this Assembly expected a bank to be an active operator in the area. Thirdly, we need to insist on the development of south-south relations. In my opinion, the Agadir agreementis an important means of creating a genuine free trade area. Fourthly, the procedures of the MEDA regulation need to be streamlined in order to increase the effectiveness of the project. –  Mr President, I congratulate Mr Bowe on the report and on the positions assumed which, given the thorny nature of the issue of genetically modified organisms, is genuinely well-balanced. What is the conclusion? The conclusion is that rules and monitoring are necessary. I am sure that we will be able to find some point of contention – for example, the issues of traceability and labelling remain unresolved – but given the crucial need for regulation, I feel that this task has been more than adequately performed. It must also be remembered that there are many things at stake in this complex matter of genetically modified organisms: it could even be said that, from many points of view, the role of the European Union itself is at stake with regard to many of its forthcoming commitments, such as the World Trade Organisation reforms, the research programme we are about to launch, the development and employment programmes, the relations which will ensue from the creation of new markets, and the globalisation processes which will lead to the redefinition of economic processes. So, as far as GMOs are concerned, we must not forget that the situations in many different countries are different. I would mention, at random, China, South Africa and Mexico, which already grow genetically modified organisms, and other countries such as Cuba which we know are preparing to do so; then there are other countries again, such as Nigeria, Thailand and the Philippines, which are extremely interested in the potential offered by biotechnologies. So the question is this: what role does the Union intend to play in a future which has already become present reality? I feel that the answer which is most relevant to the European Parliament's role can only be to set a course and establish a strategy which reflect a position of total involvement. This does not mean either accepting or rejecting, and still less bringing forward or extending the time frames. Above all, it means giving a sort of green light to all studies, applications or patents relating to biotechnologies. The Bowe report has more than succeeded in achieving this result. Mr President, Mrs Fourtou tackled a very complex issue. In order to achieve framework legislation, I believe that a lot of work will have to be done in this Parliament’s next parliamentary term. I must congratulate my colleague Mrs Fourtou because I believe that she has put together the best of the possible compromises. As with any compromise, however, I did unfortunately find some shortcomings in this report. For example, even providing for potentially effective instruments to combat activities such as peer to peer or fair sharing, does not allow for the content provider to be fully protected, a situation which risks seriously compromising the reliability of any library. The report is directed solely at crimes committed on a commercial scale and not more generally at infringements of intellectual property rights regardless of how or by whom they are committed. A lot of attention clearly needs to be given to this point in order to find a point of balance. This was a long task that lasted many months. I do, however, remember that, from the outset, the objective in terms of protecting copyright was to combat and stop the phenomenon which, alongside counterfeiting and piracy, allows material protected by copyright to be used illegally to the detriment of the work of all content providers who are legitimately building up the value chain for the use of audiovisual products. Particularly in future, we need to reflect further on the issue of the amount of private use that has increased exponentially thanks to the impetus provided by digital technology via broadband or any other advanced technological platform. This will cause a significant and quantifiable commercial prejudice for all the content providers that base their operating model on the legal distribution of content, subject to contractual agreement with the parties entitled. In this area, too, we need to consider the consequences of the new legislation on telecommunications. In fact, not only does the wording of the proposal for a directive lose sight of some important aims, but it does not even constitute an effective deterrent against infringement because, in the long process in which the various proposals were made, the possibility disappeared of compensating for the two-foldprejudice in the form of loss of profit and loss suffered. I confirm that, in the short term, to obtain an effective instrument, we need to give maximum support to the rapporteur, Mrs Fourtou, and that, in future, we must do a lot of work in this area. I have two final remarks, one relating to Recital 22. This states that prohibitory measures can be taken against intermediaries whose services are used by third parties only to infringe industrial property rights and not, as provided for in Articles 10 and 15, intellectual property rights. Such a discrepancy between the text of the regulation and that of the Recital is not without importance, because it signifies an intention to support an interpretation whereby the term intellectual property contained in the text of the articles actually refers only to cases of intellectual property. I therefore call on Mrs Fourtou to table an oral amendment in which ‘industrial property right’ is replaced by ‘intellectual property right’. In this regard, I am thinking about Italian producers protected by geographical indications, who, in a situation of this type, could not obtain an injunction in other European countries against, for example, traders, carriers or advertisers who sell, transport and publicise counterfeit Italian products. A final comment on Article 16. I think that it is really important that the final phrase of Recital 23a is reintroduced as a final paragraph of this article. In the absence of such regulatory specification, you might think in many countries that if – after the person in possession of counterfeit goods in good faith has paid compensation – the judge waived the prohibition of the sale, and exclusion from the commercial chain, of these products, they would be authorised for any commercial use. If we think, for example, about the whole medical field, this becomes totally unacceptable. –  Mr President, after complimenting Mrs Karamanou and Mrs Klamt on their fine work, I would like to make two comments, one general and the other institutional in nature. As regards reflections of an institutional nature, it seems to me that cooperation between Parliament and the Commission on this very sensitive issue is making significant, excellent progress. That is far less the case, though – and here I agree entirely with Mrs Terrón i Cusi – when it comes to the Council. We are dealing with an extremely sensitive issue, an issue that is of fundamental importance to our society. It is important for there to be an interinstitutional relationship which can give concrete form to the guidelines so well specified in these two reports. For the first time since the Charter of Fundamental Rights was adopted at Nice, we have the possibility of converting a policy document into a legal document and implementing Article 24. My general comment is that, on such a delicate issue, so well addressed in these reports, we are faced with a society where, increasingly, we see a creed taking root which is very close to a sort of new nihilism. A whole series of personal and interpersonal relationships have been greatly disturbed. We imagine that by giving our children everything they ask for, through the benefits of consumerism – I say this as a father – we are giving them some kind of happiness. We should think carefully about the decisions we take as a European Parliament. The European Parliament synthesises the tensions present in society. The issue we are now dealing with, the exploitation of children, which pervades all societies from the most to the least developed, needs to be dealt with through legislation, as we are now doing, but also in general sociological and societal development terms. –  Commissioner, we would like to thank you for drawing attention to two political points. Mr Piétrasanta’s report on the MEDA programme is widely supported and a joint effort: we really do have the same aims. The two political points on which you based your speech are, firstly, the importance of the role of the Mediterranean as a European border and also as an area which is the focus of a substantial chunk of our Union’s foreign policy, and, secondly, the fact that the Commission certainly made its measures very tangible and more timely in the transition from MEDA I to MEDA II. Indeed, in our meetings with the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean, we have been constantly reminded of the need for different administration timetables. In this connection, we note that the Commission is making a considerable effort. I will not, of course, list the points already mentioned by the rapporteur. I would like to focus on a number of political requirements which go hand in hand with the action programme. We certainly need to identify new social action programmes and, above all, we need to concentrate on protecting people with disabilities as well as new forms of cooperation concerning the protection of children. In the context of the situations on which you, Commissioner, are focusing, we would point out the need, with a view precisely to foreign policy and the role of the European Union, to insist on the conclusion of the Syria/EU negotiations in order to complete the network of Euro-Mediterranean association agreements, just as we must proceed as soon as possible with the selection of the funding programme planning projects which is at present suspended in Israel and Palestine, for they could play a very important role in this part of the Mediterranean region. I will end by stressing the need for a parliamentary assembly, for that is the political forum in which a solution could well be found to many of the processes currently in progress. –  Mr President, in our work on food aid we must not forget that, even today, there are hundreds of millions of undernourished people in the world. The endeavours of our predecessors in the Community institutions succeeded in reducing the total number of undernourished people by over 20% in the space of 30 years. In recent years, the trend has been reversed, which is extremely odd considering the efforts made by the Western world: in certain areas of our planet, the number of undernourished people is constantly on the up and the problem is heightened by natural disasters or, even worse, wars, which have continued to hit the headlines recently.  We must therefore congratulate ourselves on the fact that this issue is still on the agenda of the European Parliament and the countries of the European Union. I was very pleased to note that, as is the case in the Convention we are discussing now, the Community legislator has consistently striven to guarantee food security and not subsistence. The ultimate purpose behind our aid is to bring about food security: with the passage of time, the aid must be gradually replaced by tangible measures and sustainable instruments for consolidating that security, eliminating, at last, the need for any form of aid or intervention.  I am sure that our fellow citizens fully approve and support any initiative undertaken by the Community institutions on the matter of aid, or, even better, support for those communities which are less fortunate than we are. However, I cannot miss this opportunity to touch on an aspect, a principle which, I feel, is of paramount importance, precisely to our fellow citizens. In my opinion, the correct weighting should be given to European production. The Convention does not give any form of priority to European products, not even agricultural produce, which are intended for humanitarian aid.  Europe has always been one of the highest-producing continents in the agricultural sector. For example, the European Union is one of the world's largest producers of starchy products, which are essential for nutrition. This productivity must not be undervalued or underestimated in respect of the produce available on world markets, even in the provision of aid to the most disadvantaged communities. For this reason, I have tabled an amendment, not to the draft Convention, which, I am aware, cannot be amended, but to Mrs Schierhuber’s resolution. This amendment has been judged inadmissible, but my aim in tabling it was to provoke a debate of substance in this Chamber on a topic which, I feel, is of vital concern to our farmers, particularly at this difficult time for them in the aftermath of the reform of the common agricultural policy.  In conclusion, I would stress that the purpose of my amendment, and the purpose, now, of this speech, is to promote the cause of Community products, in particular, agricultural produce, at the time of the conclusion of international agreements, and to urge the European executive bodies not to disregard the millions of people whose livelihood depends on European produce, and I refer not to consumers but to producers. –  Commissioner, we support the draft regulation and also this continuing project of the Commission, which appears to be working on a sort of general initiative, of which this could be the fourth part. You might wonder, since I support the regulation, why I am speaking at all, but I have taken the floor because we are confused about one fundamental matter. This is my question: why is it that, in a regulation which seeks to reduce bureaucracy through a series of measures – and we have already mentioned the specific sectors – was it decided to exclude the transport sector? I am taking as an example – most exceptionally – the domestic situation in Italy, where decisions have been taken over the years which have had debatable consequences, although it is also true that Italy is a country whose environmental conditions are very different from the rest of Europe. In a regulation which regulates employment measures in sectors which already have a great many problems and which need to diversify and to retrain their workforces, singling out the transport sector for absolute exclusion from the measure would appear to be something that the Commission might want to reconsider. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that every person who is motivated by faith in man, right from the very first moment of his existence, must be guaranteed the unconditional respect which is morally due to the human person in its entirety. Therefore, we must state, loud and clear, our opposition to experiments which involve the destruction of human embryos. An embryo is already a human person with a very specific identity, and every action which is not intended to benefit the embryo is an act of violence against the right to life. Parliament must reiterate what it has declared many times in recent years, including last May. It is immoral to use human embryos for research, for those very operations to which the President of the United States, Bill Clinton, has allocated public funding, those operations which have been approved by Tony Blair’s British Government. Sadly, it would appear that commercial interests are driving scientists to explore types of research which involve shortcuts and disregard all consideration for the protection of human life, which we consider to start at the moment of conception. The human body is not a possession, it is nothing to do with ‘having’, it is to do with ‘being’, with being a living person, and it cannot therefore be reduced to a machine made up of components and gears, materials and functions. What people are trying to achieve is almost an attack on life; it is the opposite of the ethic of love of man and his body, even in that initial stage of being alive, of being in the world, the human world, with that body which is himself. To the extent that those who take human embryos and disembowel them, removing the mass of cells inside and extinguishing their life, contrive to say that there is no-one inside, for if there were somebody inside they would be worthy of love or, in a loveless world, they would at least have the right for their human dignity to be respected. Otherwise, the world would consist of violence, brutality and cynicism. Ladies and gentlemen, to oppose destructive research on embryos is not just to adhere to religious principle, but to uphold a principle of civilisation as well: the absolute ban on one man being master of another which should still be at the very heart of our civilisation. We cannot allow man to have such great power over his fellow man. But this does not mean that we are against research, quite the contrary. Alternative research is possible: research on the stem cells present in adults and on cells removed from the umbilical cord immediately after birth, for example. In addition to all this,research is indeedbeing carried out on adult cells and looks likely to yield results. Many research scientists are involved in alternatives to cloning and they are about to form major national research groups to work in this specific area. Lastly, we propose that a temporary committee be set up to study these issues. We would like there to be in-depth studies of new issues thrown up by the life sciences, on the condition that it is clear that the positions adopted by Parliament cannot be renegotiated. It is those positions which the Commission must take as its starting point to assist us in producing well-founded recommendations. –  Madam President, of course, we are absolutely in favour of the adoption of rules guaranteeing a high level of consumer and environmental protection and safety, but we are also in favour of measures being implemented with certainty and transparency, and one of these measures is clearly labelling, which we feel must be accompanied by a control system based on scientific verification. I would like to thank the two rapporteurs for the enormous amount of work they have done on an extremely difficult, complex subject, but I have to say that there are elements of the two reports which give some cause for concern, such as, for example, the arbitrary lowering of the tolerance threshold for the adventitious presence of genetically modified materials, previously set at 1%, to 0.5%. We feel that this complicates the authorisation procedure unnecessarily without providing greater security or other benefits for the consumer. Then another point which gives cause for concern is the lack of adequate measures in respect of the accidental presence of traces of genetically modified products. I would like to say something about the concept of ‘adventitious presence’, a concept which is used to indicate the unintended presence of small quantities of a specific atypical material in another material. Well then, in the field of agriculture – and here, as always, agriculture is a sector requiring special consideration – the adventitious presence of traces of other varieties in crops, plants or propagation materials can occur at any stage of sowing, harvesting, transport or distribution. In some cases, this adventitious presence could even be the result of an exchange of pollen between crop varieties in adjoining fields. Amendment No 9 in the proposal places farmers operating according to normal farming practice in real difficulties. It is important to avoid thresholds which do not take the concrete facts into account. –  Mr President, there has been endless discussion of the role of young people in agriculture, but even today their situation gives little cause for optimism. It is no coincidence that, after the launching of Agenda 2000, in the current phase of WTO renegotiations and with the now imminent prospect of enlargement, we are still here today debating the future of young farmers, of those young people who, in so many countries in Europe, are placing bets on whether they will be able to remain within the agricultural sector for good. How can we help them? One of the best solutions can only be to revoke the measures laid down by the CAP. It is time to evaluate carefully how the distribution of contributions – as, by definition, income support – reaches undertakings able to compete on the global market. This would make it possible to direct the finances towards a vision which is more targeted towards lowering general costs, encouraging the formation of consortia. We could also work on the joint farming of lands; after all, this is the change which will mark the evolution of farming. From this point of view, it is then essential to stipulate that incentives should be provided in the form of reductions in the relevant interest rates for investments made by young farmers. In this way, we would be implementing the provisions of Regulation 1257 of 1999, which encourages the combining of several actions when they are aimed at bringing about greater use of the resources provided by development plans for rural areas. I feel that, if this debate were to send out these sorts of signals, we would be able genuinely to start building the framework for a new European agriculture structure based on young people which, most importantly, would certainly not mean abandoning and forgetting those who are seeking possible alternatives in the new environmental and multifunctionality opportunities. I would like to thank Mr Parish for his excellent work. –  Mr President, Minister, the French Presidency has committed itself to a courageous, ambitious, brilliant agenda, considering some of the difficulties we are experiencing at this time. The important aspect of President Chirac’s speech was, we felt, our common values and intentions. In our opinion, a Europe which builds its future with constancy, continuity and responsibility is the best guarantee that the founding fathers’ blueprint is implemented faithfully, that the endeavours of all those who have worked on it over the past 50 years are at the basis of its success and that Europe is built on solid foundations. It seems appropriate to break down the complex problem of the institutions: we must conclude the IGC on the three topics left over from Amsterdam and closer cooperation. This is the only way we can move forward in the intense debate on the future of the European Union and reconcile the economic development of Europe with the strengthening of the European Social Model and with the fight against social exclusion and modern forms of poverty, in order to bring Europe closer to the citizens, step up negotiations on enlargement and increasingly consolidate the European Union’s role in the world. In this context, we consider it essential to reinforce the European Commission, a supranational, independent body, the full expression of the unique characteristics of the structure of the European institutions. Enlargement is the conclusion of a political process which began with the reconciliation of the countries of Western Europe 50 years ago. This historic event must not be dismissed by replacing the Berlin wall with another wall, the wall of specific interests, egoism and bureaucracy. However, as the French Presidency rightly pointed out, enlargement must not weaken the Union’s action either. Mr Chirac’s words on the future of the European Union are reassuring, particularly because he spoke of a new stage which would start after the conclusion of the IGC, on subjects such as the consolidation of legitimate democracy in decisions, security and defence, the accentuation of the unique characteristics of the European institutions, a clear definition of responsibilities and the consolidation of the principle of subsidiarity, matters which cannot be ignored in the near future. The subject of closer cooperation has been widely debated and disputed. It used to be known as the ‘two speed’ Europe and is now referred to as the ‘hard core’. Some see it as an opportunity and some as a threat. In any case, all are in agreement that this situation should not lead to division but should spur us on to reach together those new frontiers which the current European model does not allow us to reach but which, in the future, it will have to. I would inform our French friends that Italy, which has been at the forefront of the European project ever since the beginning and which, we hope, is soon to enter a period of political stability, will be become increasingly active, implementing tangible actions, alongside the countries which sincerely desire to reinforce the Union’s foundations and to achieve the most important and ambitious cooperation objectives. –  Mr President, I took part in the work at Valencia and would like to draw your attention and the attention of this House to a couple of – strong – impressions I received there: firstly, confirmation that there cannot be a future of peace and stability, prosperity and economic growth in Europe if the Mediterranean area continues to experience the present conflict; secondly, I do not want to go against the general feeling but, for the first time, I had the impression, which was subsequently confirmed during the bilateral meetings, that the Arab world and the southern shore of the Mediterranean see Europe and the European Union as the only interlocutor that can possibly help them with their problems, the only interlocutor that can live alongside their problems and resolve them. In this, I must congratulate Mr Piqué, who directed all the meetings and troikas with truly rare neutrality and balance, given the difficulties of the political situation. What are we, as the European Union, going to propose? We must propose a path which we all unequivocally support; we must propose reinvigoration of the Barcelona Process, striving to bring about lasting change; we must propose a Parliamentary Assembly to monitor the initiatives undertaken; we must propose a new dialogue between the two shores of the Mediterranean and further consolidate it with regard to humanitarian issues, justice and combating terrorism. Moreover, there is a need for our proposals to be implemented practically without delay. The creation of the Bank, relations of closer cooperation and association relations are all tangible projects which show the European Union to be the ideal partner for the other shore of the Mediterranean. The peace process and the current conflict between Israel and the Palestinian world are threats to these projects. However, if, as the European Union, we do not have the courage to dare to go further, using all the means available to us and taking advantage of the hopes that are placed in us, then we will in all probability waste an opportunity that is historic, not least in terms of the European project which is in the minds and hearts of many of us and which is taking shape in the Convention. As regards practical action, I am taking up the call made again this morning by the Supreme Pontiff. I and Mr Mario Mauro are following the developments of the conflict in the holy places of Jesus’ birth through direct contact with Fr. Giacomo Bini, the Minister General of the Order of Friars Minor. Well then, the situation will soon be beyond humanitarian aid. The monks and sisters who live in the religious community of Bethlehem cannot be considered hostages. It is a symbolic fact of extreme importance: the attention of the whole world is focused on what is happening in the place where Jesus Christ, the bearer of peace to all men, was born. Millions of men and women are awaiting an intervention that will defeat the designs and actions of death. We call upon Parliament, upon you, Mr President, upon the Commission, upon the President-in-Office of the Council and upon Mr Piqué, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to take practical action to bring this affair nearer to a conclusion. I feel that it would be a genuine sign of hope and a promise of stability for the future of this tragically war-torn Holy Land. –  Mr President, animals in the past, apart from those traditionally involved in transhumance, did not travel long distances and so throughout their lives they only made the journey to the slaughterhouse. Today, however, the problem of regulating the various aspects of transport has become a major component of legislation in the animal production sector. The first requirement that has arisen concerns health, especially the spread of transmissible diseases. Added to this is the increasingly important question of animal protection and stress factors. Animal welfare during transport more directly involves operators other than farmers, even though the latter often suffer its consequences, both upstream, when they receive the animals to be added to their holdings, and downstream, because of the effects that transport can have on quality and hence on the return they get for their products. Legislation protecting livestock during transport, in particular the regulation on which we are preparing to vote, is based on scientific and technical evidence. In this specific instance, we recall the studies following the report by the Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare, which took into account over 300 sources and drew up 55 recommendations. If we consider the five freedoms mentioned in the Bremmer report in 1995, we realise that the unloading, loading and moving operations will have a profound effect on each of these five freedoms. Indeed, it has been proved that this set of operations causes the animals greater stress and suffering than any other farming practice. I therefore think that the maximum hours proposed and the system of rest periods are too reductionist, and the reasoning adopted in support of shorter travelling times cannot be justified from a scientific point of view: the Scientific Committee itself did not set this limit when it drew up its report. There is no doubt that transport can have a great many adverse effects on animals, but the whole situation must be analysed in technical terms for the good of both the animals themselves and the operators. –  Mr President, Commissioner, we have discussed the subject of beef and veal and the crisis in the sector a great many times in recent months. It is important that our institutions concentrate on developing a European production model, a model that must, of course, suit many different national situations which, in some parts of Europe, have different production characteristics. I would now like to comment very briefly on the Sturdy report itself. Firstly, we consider it essential to limit the effect that would arise if the Member States were given the possibility of amending or derogating from the ceiling of 90 head per holding. This production increase is, in actual fact, insignificant, while the derogation is essential in certain production contexts and does not in itself contribute to production intensification. Similarly, the plan to introduce individual rights into the system of special premiums does not appear to take account of the usual production customs of large parts of the Community, which are characterised by the presence of specialised holdings which do not manage the entire breeding cycle but only the last stages. Secondly, in the light, apart from anything else, of the definitive ban on animal meals and of the requirement to use vegetable proteins alone, there will have to be a heated debate on the Blair House Agreement and it will have to be revised on the basis of the requirements of European production. Finally, we consider extremely important the support and enhancement and promotion actions implemented across the sectors. It is just as important that we attempt to do this on a Community basis, above all, rather than on a national basis as before, because it is only in Europe that we can provide a response to the demands and requirements of the consumer. –  Mr President, Commissioner, congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr Caudron, for the excellent results attained on a programme which, rhetoric apart, can truly be defined as a real challenge for civilisation so to speak, equality between the northern and southern hemispheres. Moreover, the best aspect of this work is that the Commission’s proposal is an unprecedented innovation in that, although Article 169 is an excellent formulation, it is being applied in practice for the first time, and, by taking this line, we are creating a genuine, tangible partnership to address a real problem concerning the northern and southern hemispheres. This initiative is so astute that it should be repeated in both the research sector and other key areas of the Union’s foreign relations. Since I agree with the position set out by the rapporteur, I will make three very brief remarks. Firstly, I think that it was a positive decision not to extend the programme to related diseases, not because they are less important, but because we should not disperse our resources and efforts. Moreover, the results can be used to improve the treatment of other diseases and can form the basis of new research activities, thereby contributing to resolving other health issues related to the problems experienced by developing countries. Secondly, regarding Amendment No 13 – involvement of the private sector – I believe that it is particularly important to involve the private sector in the programme because this will enable additional funds to be leveraged, encouraging businesses to invest more in diseases which affect developing countries. In this connection, a debate on tax differentiation mechanisms could be an extremely interesting incentive. The third point concerns the protection of intellectual property. Involvement of the pharmaceutical industry is essential for the success of the programme. We must have differentiated pricing for medicines sold in developing countries and, in my opinion, we need different labels as well to prevent fraud. –  Mr President, while I listened to the Commissioner as carefully as I always do, in my mind was the thought that this is another case of a never-ending conflict between our desires and our capabilities. Indeed, it is easy to let emotions take over when we discuss matters such as this, but I would remind you that this is a legislative House and that we have to respect the rules we make. I therefore agree with the position expressed by Mr Medina Ortega in the conclusion to his speech to the effect that, when we draw up the new version of the Treaties, we must reflect once and for all on the European Union’s competences in this field. The lengthy analysis in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was a very serious process. With the first advertising directive having been annulled, the second proposal, although less comprehensive, is still wide-ranging and, in our opinion, it still leaves ample room for further recourse to the Court of Justice. In terms of primary law, the draft presented does not fully respond to the issues arising from the Court decision. I feel that, if we are to do the job properly, two minutes are not enough to go into the complexities of legal issues. I will therefore limit myself to two very brief points. The first concerns the prohibition on advertising in the press, with regard to which the general statement deriving from the decisions of the Court of Justice on the advertising of tobacco products to the effect that a ban on advertising can be contemplated, in principle, on the basis of Article 95, should probably be understood according to the very narrow Court interpretation of the Community’s competences in the area of the internal market and not as a kind of  for the issue of a general ban on the advertising of tobacco products in the press. This is as the current legislation stands. The second point is the ban on Internet advertising. As regards the ban on tobacco advertising through information society services, it is difficult to perceiveany potential future barriers to the freedom to provide services or distortions of competition. At best, such a ban can be based on the need to avoid the possibility of a further ban, and at this point, this means that the principles of Community competence and responsibility are being overturned and reduced to competences in principle, and that is extremely dangerous from a legal point of view. –  Mr President, I am aware that the subject before us is extremely sensitive, particularly at this moment in history. We have been working – and I refer to this legislature, of course – over the past two years to establish positive relations between citizens and immigrants, to make equal opportunities possible and to create a form of social cohesion. Now, everyone can see the need to revise certain parts of the agenda we have been working on and, in particular, to identify how the revision of these points can be converted into positive Community legislation allowing us to grow into the kind of Europe we all want. I would now like to make three points. Firstly, we need to focus more on defining framework legislation to promote actions at regional and local levels, always in agreement with the Member States, in situations where an initiative is certainly needed to make it easier to balance the three factors which have always been the basis for our analyses of the issue of immigration and asylum.These factors are migration flows, which must be regulated and continuously monitored, integration, and the fight against illegal immigration which is often, sadly, a source of the more major concerns of crime and the exploitation of human beings. Secondly, we need a thorough debate at European level on the issues which we consider to be vital for our policies such as cooperation between police forces, judicial cooperation, common forms of control and common information systems. We must make it quite clear what financial resources we should consider adequate and quantifiable in these areas. Thirdly, we may well have disregarded or underestimated the importance of one of our tasks. We must insist on the need for the major educational programmes which are the foundations of our culture, and of multiculturalism, in particular: there must be schooling and education starting with foreign children, especially, irrespective of their legal position. These programmes are fundamental for the policies of integrating and building the societies we want. In my opinion, we must establish a substantial educational and cultural programme, a major part of which promotes communication between cultures, for that would be the first step along a path which will certainly bring about the sort of integration we desire. –  Mr President, to continue along the line of reasoning followed during the work on this draft resolution in committee, I would like to table an oral amendment. It is for Parliament to decide: either we insert the words ‘and left-wing’ between the words ‘right-wing’ and ‘extremism’, or we remove the word ‘right-wing’ altogether, and simply refer to ‘extremism’. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Commissioner Barnier, who has addressed the tragic events of this summer with his usual clarity and illustrated what the Commission is doing with his customary great skill. There is just one point which leaves me somewhat perplexed: I find it difficult to make a distinction between the drought and the fires, particularly when it comes to the environmental and economic consequences. If there is a distinction, it is at the level of the causes, for I am afraid that many of the fires were caused by man’s folly, by a pyromaniac, while it would be extremely difficult to blame anyone for the drought. Commissioner, I would now, if I may, like to look at what has been an absolutely dreadful summer for Europe from a farming perspective because, in my view, the scale of the problem is truly huge. The drought of recent months is yet another indication of how the indisputable change in the earth’s climate is having irreparable effects on the environment and on our farming in particular. I am afraid that extremes have become the norm: drought, rain, cyclones and floods are the effects of a process of desertification which I am sad to say is affecting Europe, in particular southern and eastern Europe, and, ultimately, taking a very heavy toll on farming, for these disasters are generating an economic crisis, opening up a bottomless pit of production costs and sharply reducing the market margins for farm produce, in such a way as to jeopardise, in a summer such as this, even the pursuit of entrepreneurial activity in large areas of Europe. I am not trying to paint a picture which is all black: I am merely describing a situation and I would like to identify ways of assisting and supporting farming. In this case, it is important that, generally speaking, the Commission carries out a careful assessment and adopts practical instruments to analyse and address the quantity and quality of European water resources for the coming decades, with particular focus on ways of conserving them. Then there are the immediate requirements. I feel that, although the scale of the damage caused by the drought, which will become clear when the growing and harvesting operations are over, could or will lead to the activation of the European Solidarity Fund, at the same time, it would be essential to be able to take advantage, as at other times of declared crisis, of the option of bringing forward the payment of Community premiums to farmers. In this sense, it might be useful to set up a European summit coordinating all the parties affected by disasters, which is necessary to support measures to improve the situation, particularly the state of the farming economy. Not immediately but soon, a damage estimate, which may be difficult to carry out but should certainly be close to the threshold for benefiting from the solidarity instruments I mentioned just now, could call for careful reflection from the Commission and a Commission proposal to achieve a multi-risk reform tailored to respond to the new climatic conditions of our continent. This would certainly be a very useful, wholly innovative instrument to support our farming. –  Mr President, we must take note of the immense amount of work put in by Mrs Wallis and her endeavours to preserve a certain balance in an extremely complex report, for we are attempting to define future scenarios which will be extremely important for all of us. This evening's debate may appear to be very technical at first sight, but it does actually contain major political elements. One of our tasks is to establish ground rules on the working of the market and regulating the relationship between two of its fundamental players: the service provider and the consumer. It is too simplistic to say that we are protecting the consumer by laying down that the applicable law and competent court are in all cases, without exception, those of consumer's place of residence. In reality, the market, especially the market of the new economy, is a complex environment where the commercial relations between the actors and the variety of different ways in which it is possible to conduct a transaction are driving out all inflexibility. Any of us, while we are here in Brussels, could buy something from Hong Kong over the Internet and have it delivered to Buenos Aires. To imagine that we can adopt a regulation laying down a fixed rule for establishing the competent court, the applicable law and the place of residence of the consumer does not, in actual fact, seem practical. If the person buying the goods were resident in Italy, it could well be of interest, for it would probably be an improvement on our Stone Age legal system. However, in our opinion, the market requires the rapid settling of potential disputes by the transferral of these disputes to alternative systems of justice where experts are called upon to find solutions. Today, new players are emerging in the construction of international market rules. Consider, for example, the influence of the large law firms and global players in international transactions. It is they who introduce new rules and new ways of settling disputes. Written law is increasingly being replaced by unwritten law, which interprets the flexibility of the markets and provides solutions to specific cases. The globalisation of markets is producing a plurality of legal systems created by the same social groups which they are intended to serve. They are an expression of the market's constant need to move forward and expand. There is interaction between regulation and self regulation. The principles of sovereignty and territoriality, on which the nation state is based are, in reality, dying out. What can businesses do, faced with the handicap of rigid regulations, especially the small- and medium-sized businesses? Either they do not operate outside their own country in order to avoid excessive legal expenditure, or they put prices up in order to offset the potential cost of disputes. At the end of the day, the cost, in the form of reduced availability of goods and services and higher prices, is borne by the consumer, who is at the mercy of our regulations. What is more, we would be holding back the economic development and increase in employment which should, apparently, come with the new economy. This is what is being advocated today by certain sections of Parliament, whose amendments display a purely demagogic approach. We do not support this approach, considering also that, in the directive on electronic commerce adopted a few months ago, we laid down rules governing the signing of on-line contracts and confirmed the validity of the principles of the internal market, rule of origin and on country control. Therefore, my group fully supports the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market – which tends precisely towards greater flexibility – and throws down one final challenge: legal solutions for the markets now require global responses, especially in the context of the regulation of the new economy itself. Of course, the European Union does need to produce its own model, but we must be aware that, without an international agreement, it is unlikely to be very effective. –  Mr President, Commissioner, a strong Authority that can avail itself of all the wealth of Europe’s experience, ability and professionalism: if that is the accepted and agreed principle underlying the European Food Authority, the principle of separation between risk assessment and risk management is not, in my opinion, likely to apply very much, in terms of either timing or purpose. From this angle, the establishment of a European Food Authority represents the base line, the first step towards bringing protection up to speed and responding to consumers’ demands and also their fears. To make that concrete, the European Food Authority’s operations and mission must cover real detailed knowledge of all the farms scattered across the European Union. Hence a close and positive link with appropriate structures inside the countries of the Union seems essential and fundamental. Furthermore, it is becoming hard to believe that animal health is in any way remote or separate from public health generally. Animal health is therefore a vital issue, but so are healthy vegetables, genetically modified organisms and, last but not least, labelling. In my opinion, it is precisely through the action of the European Food Authority that the European concept of traceability must become reality, and a thread running through every link in the food chain: production, industrial processing and marketing. If we fail to impose this traceability in the service of the citizen, we will inevitably lose a great opportunity for transparency and political action to demonstrate that we are indeed responsive to the demands of our fellow European citizens. Mr President, I will develop a few ideas regarding the sector that is most dear to me – agriculture – because, whilst I support the policy to guarantee the greatest benefits of the expansion of world trade to developing countries, I would like to stress that the European Union has already granted these and so many trade preferences to become the main market for the export of agricultural products. I would like to again consider the further concessions and the proposal for duty-free access, because this does not, in my view, constitute the most effective means to help farmers in these countries, whilst it would permanently jeopardise many strategic European products. As a negotiating tactic, I would strengthen the argument in defence of the Community system, to guarantee stability mechanisms on the world market, knowing that stability of world prices is beneficial to all members of the World Trade Organisation. In order to do this, and not cause a structural crisis in the agriculture sector, I am adamant that the results of the WTO negotiations should not go further than the decisions taken in Berlin in the context of Agenda 2000 and supporting prices and markets should remain a fundamental element in the common agricultural policy. Following changes to the United States support system that were, in my view, very intelligent, we need to review our internal support to examine to what extent the GATT agreement is being respected and to assess the effect of aid on market prices and the competitive positions of commodities. Finally, it is important that the issue of the great challenges posed by enlargement for the European Union is raised during the WTO talks. This is a process of worldwide significance that must, in my view, be recognised at the negotiation table. – Mr President, the tendering directive, the single European sky directive, the directive on takeover bids, the agencies, the concrete work on economic growth – one need only recall the decisions made on major public works and the finance mechanisms associated with them – and the careful analysis launched by the Italian Presidency, followed by specific proposals on competitiveness, a subject which lies at the root of the Lisbon process which is only slowly taking shape in the way we want; the specific measures on immigration – which should take place legally with flows regulated by individual countries’ requirements – with particular regard for the border control agency; the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly and the Foundation for Dialogue between Cultures and Civilisations, whose main task will be an assessment of the dialogue between religions in the hope of curbing fundamentalism, since this is terrorism in the making; the action in the Middle East – where we have worked hard towards a dialogue between the two sides, and Italy in particular has also provided a venue – with the launching of an intervention plan with a EUR 5 billion budget for the next five years: these are undeniable achievements that attest to the generosity of the Italian Presidency. There is, of course, one discordant note: the mechanism for giving the European Union a new formal constitution has jammed. At this moment we must pay particular attention to the sirens of the material constitution. We need time to reflect, because what emerged in the heat of the moment is certainly worrying. I will not mention those involved but rather the issues: a two-speed Europe, the emphasis on closer cooperation, a Europe made of concentric circles, in which all share the same policies but each group remains open to new associations – this is not the political scenario that the 25-Member Europe needs. We must not lose what lay at the heart of the Convention: the general interest of Europe, which gave rise to the decision to abolish national veto rights in most cases and proposals for a transparent and credible voting system. In the general interest of Europe we must make a fresh start and work with new formulas that we can create if we so wish. –  Mr President, I would like to congratulate Ms Thors on her work – a difficult task since we are regulating the future. I will dwell on a few critical aspects which I feel should be brought to Parliament’s attention.  For example, in my opinion, it is extremely important to concentrate on the copyright rules because the restrictions resulting from copyright agreements and the differences in standards used for transmissions are likely to hold back progress towards a genuine television without frontiers and a genuine European internal market in television services. This would probably mean losing a unique opportunity to develop a European television industry. Citizens who live or work in Member States which are not their country of origin cannot legally subscribe to foreign platforms as these do not own the right necessary to broadcast in the Member States in question. The European Parliament has already raised this issue in the past and the rapporteur analyses it, while drawing attention to the problem as it presents itself in the border regions, where the linguistic minorities live on the other side of the border. In any case, we should place greater emphasis on actions aimed at implementation. I feel that it must be stressed, as the rapporteur pointed out clearly, that in the new regulatory framework, a balance must be struck between the need to ensure the diversity of culture and contentin television networks and the risk that regulation might hamper the will to invest in digital TV. We need a flexible approach in order to regulate the economic situations which are going through a period of deep-rooted change.  The regulation of the market must not hamper its development and, in particular, the development of new television services. In this regard, I feel that we should go back in the forthcoming months or years to certain factors such as the separation of the regulation of the content in TV from regulation of the infrastructures. Moreover, I would argue that there should also be great focus on the interoperability of systems which, although its aim is general protection of the possibility for users to access the databroadcast via the digital platforms, is emerging at this time as a competition protection measure, protecting the possibility of access to the market for the different operators and thus opening up unprecedented legal horizons. Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, Mr Klaus-Heiner Lehne: the affair of the takeover bids directive really does seem to be never-ending. Starting life in January 1989 with the first Commission proposal, a proposal that was, moreover, ambitious, pursuing the objective of achieving a single market in corporate control, the progress of the takeover bids directive through the legislative process seems to have been a kind of obstacle course, with texts alternating between maximalist proposals unacceptable to some – the individual States and the Council of Ministers – and minimalist compromises unacceptable to others – the European Parliament. Of this obstacle course, I remember that the European Parliament rejected a Conciliation Committee joint text on 4 July 2001I also remember the extremely interesting Commission proposal of October 2002, drawn up after a group of high-level experts had been consulted. This proposal, in addition to preserving the passivity rule in Article 9, sought to achieve the objectives set by the European Parliament and the wise men consulted, the neutralisation of some pre-bid defensive measures and proportionality between risk capital and voting rights, while I am afraid the very points that we might call most dangerous such as large corporations and multiple voting rights were excluded. Another obstacle course has started, with regard to which we thought that the intuition of the Council Presidency in June 2002 provided a way out: giving the Member States and quoted companies respectively the possibility of choosing between the directive’s model with the passivity rule and the neutralisation of defensive measures - type A companies - or preservation of defensive measures - type B companies - all supplemented by a requirement of maximum transparency in a system to which a company is subject. To put all the operators on a level playing field, provision is made for type A companies to decide not to let themselves be taken over by a type B company. The solution has many advantages: it shows which is the ideal solution – type A, the benchmark – and creates reciprocity. Moreover, the neutralisation of defensive measures requires an initial uniform rule of European company law: Article 11, which provides for the options, is essentially a derogation from the usual system. These options can be withdrawn once the market, favouring type A companies, has created the right conditions. There is more. With the current system, quoted companies subject to systems which do not provide for passivity rules or neutralisation can opt for competitiveness, which would not be possible without the directive. Moreover, the maximum transparency of company systemsand internal rules required by both Article 10 of the proposal for a directive and the parallel proposal for a directive on the transparency of quoted companies - which is also currently being debated in Parliament and the Council - ensures that companies which fully accept Articles 9 and 11, the stars, are the true European companies and clearly identifiable as such. In this way, it is made possible for the market to reward them. Indeed, institutional investors should explain to their clients why they are investing in non-competitive, type B companies rather than in a competitive, type A company. Lastly, the compromise, providing for preventive partial takeover bids, allows many countries not to make substantial changes to their legislation, while, at the same time, it does not riskexposing companies to unfair competition from companies in other countries. –  Mr President, the question addressed by the Napolitano report is not simple, particularly when seen against the backdrop of the process of integrating the European Union which is currently underway. Yet, although it is not an easy issue to resolve, the rapporteur addresses it in a commendably balanced, not to say quite pragmatic way. There is, in fact, undeniable tension between the supranational and regional dimensions: tension which is historical, for the more European development has tended towards the supranational, the more – I regret to say – we have lost sight of the fact that, within many States, regionalisation processes were developing with characteristics and approaches to decentralisation which were different from what we were developing in the European Union. Thus, a sort of grey area has been created, there have been injustices, if we consider what has happened in recent years. We have witnessed a process of Europeanisation of powers conferred on the regions by Constitutions. We have witnessed a complete lack or only relative participation of the regions in the Community decision-making processes. We have witnessed the transfer of responsibilities from the States to the Community and thus the loss of the interactive powers conferred on the regions by national Constitutions. The participate in thefederal legislative process through the and the Italian regions have powers of initiative at national level. Then the regions are further penalised in that they no longer have any guarantees as regards jurisdictional protection in the event of encroachment on their competences. I feel that the Napolitano report endeavours to provide a very interesting legal response to all these concerns. It is the basis for a debate which will take place formally in the Convention, probably at the beginning of February. The report and the amendments tabled – further reflection may be necessary on some amendments where too much emphasis is placed on access to a Constitutional Court – will enable Parliament to provide the Convention with a plan for the construction of the Europe of the citizens which we want. –  Mr President, whatever the outcome of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, one of the Union’s main problems will be preserving its decision-making capacity, its governability and the coherence of its policies. In the future institutional architecture, the Council will be defined, on the one hand, by its power of co-legislator, on the other, by its role of guaranteeing the governability of the Union as a whole, and, in addition, by the attempt to achieve coherence between the Union’s policies at all levels. We are firm believers in an effective, transparent Council exercising all the powers currently conferred on it by the Treaties, but we certainly cannot deny that the model we have been following in recent years, in which the Council has the role of laying down politicalguidelines – which is certainly essential for the Union’s progress – has been struggling recently and may well need to be adapted and brought into line with growth and with the global changes which have taken place in our institutions themselves. There are countless examples of this: just now, a Member mentioned the excessive expansion of our agendas, but we will not go into the details of specific cases. What is quite clear is that the situation creates anomalies to the detriment of the Community method. That is why we decided to call for urgent reform of the Council, precisely with a view to making the Union as efficient as possible. These reforms are in the interests of the citizens and all the other institutions, they would not necessarily take long to implement and they can probably be carried out without amending the Treaty. We must take note of the fact that, thus far, the chief victim of this uncomfortable situation has been the Community method, for it has meant that the Commission and the European Parliament are deprived of some of the roles conferred upon them by the Treaties. Complete transparency must surround the reorganisation of the mechanisms, and the process must be completed before the enlargement of the European Union takes place. I would like to thank the Members for their contributions to this resolution, which I trust will lay down the direction we must take to achieve a strong Europe which is close and, above all, open to the citizens. –  Mr President, while fully acknowledging the right of all the Members to speak, I would like, once again, to call upon the House to avoid antagonistic statements, confusing tragic situations such as those just mentioned – immigration tragedies taking place in Italy – with situations and decisions made by the Italian Government relating to matters of infrastructure. I believe that, with due regard for Parliament’s role, when we choose to engage in controversial debate just for the sake of it, we are not helping either ourselves or the people afflicted by these tragedies. –  Mr President, I would like to join the Members who have already spoken in congratulating our friend, Mr Lamassoure. My position is similar to theirs. I feel that the report is a major political document and will be a point of reference for the Convention in its work. For that very reason, I will focus in my speech on a desire I was nurturing. I feel that this could have been an appropriate time to introduce greater focus on the issue of the regions in the future European architecture than in the latest version, which will be put to the vote tomorrow. Indeed, there has been a great deal of discussion and a lengthy debate on the role of the regions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In my opinion, as the volume of the Convention’s work grows, so the range of communication processes used will expand and the regions will increasingly start to take on a leading role in Europe’s development. Anything else would be a step backwards, a mere integration process. At present, we must be wary, above all, of developments which place the Union’s political vision and its relationship with its citizens in serious jeopardy, for when the citizens look at the institution of the Union, I am sure they see the regional institutions as the bodies controlling their own situations and their own wishes. We, who want to build a Union for the citizens at the level of the citizens, would certainly be doing both ourselves and the future of Europe a great service in reflecting precisely on the role of the regional institutions and on an institutional architecture in which all the legislative institutions are part of the Union’s future. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that, of the many subjects dealt with in this term, the subject that we are dealing with this morning has, for me, been one of the most complex, and I must acknowledge the enormous amount of work that Mrs McCarthy has carried out. I do not have all the answers and I understand the Commission’s need - as Commissioner Bolkestein explained clearly - to speak on this issue. I will, nevertheless, make a few remarks of a general nature, starting with the premise that we are dealing with an issue where identifying the subject of legal protection, and thus converting computer terms into legal terms and concepts, can already, in itself, be an extremely complex matter. Now to a second point: we have, of necessity, to deal with a complex international legislative framework and, if we look at what is happening, not just in Europe but in the United States, in particular, the patent system is proving to have very many limitations, above all very many practical limitations. Having said that, I believe that this directive, although there is room for improvement, has addressed a serious political issue facing the European Union. We need to stand apart from the US positions and we may well also have to convince our main economic partners of the need for a measure harmonising all aspects of the legal protection of software in a form different from the current form. In this, we are not starting from scratch, because the characteristics on which patents are based have already been clearly identified in the TRIPs agreements. We therefore need to insist on the idea - from which we must not be moved - that software patents are only granted on solid grounds. We have seen an abnormal number of applications for software patents in the United States, and there are probably just as many in the EU, and this makes it clear that we are not dealing with genuine inventive activity and that we cannot afford to grant every type of application a patent. Furthermore, with the number of patent applications increasing uncontrollably, it will become virtually impossible to ascertain properly from the archives whether the application will genuinely lead to a new invention. Of course, there are some legal aspects that could be improved upon; there are some discrepancies with Directive 91/250/EEC; we could certainly have reflected more from a legal point of view on Article 52 of the European Patent Convention, because one thing is certain: we will be forced to return to this issue because - as many Members have stated - development is so rapid that the European Union will have to adopt a measure in the next few years, when we will be able to revise our positions. –  Mr President, I believe that we all feel a certain satisfaction when we are part of an historic moment, whatever the context, and this is definitely an historic moment for, irrespective of different positions and disagreement, which we have heard expressed again today, I fully agree with what Mr Méndez de Vigo said. For the first time in history, we have succeeded in reconciling sovereignty with the protection of rights, leaving behind the concept of  we have known and launching Europe towards future horizons whose limits will be for us alone to decide. Of course, there may well be a few minor flaws but, seeing as the preamble contained an extensive discourse with reference, not least, to Thucydides, I would like to draw the House’s attention to the principle of the ancient Greek philosophers: history is never completely flawless because, if it were, it would not be perpetuated. I will not comment on the text of the Treaty but limit myself to one warning and one regret. One point on which we as Parliament must take care is the requirement of unanimity in decision-making. We have achieved a text which, without a doubt, launches the Community method and spirit towards new horizons and, given that the Constitutional Treaty with its many facets is a key card for us to play if we are to achieve greater European competitiveness, the requirement of unanimous decision-making in a 15-Member State Europe – as we have seen – has already, at many sensitive times and in many sensitive cases, created difficult, not to say impossible situations. Well then, opting to preserve unanimity in a 25-Member State Union may have very serious consequences, especially if the decisions hinge on economic or tax proposals. I fear that if we were to take the option of establishing a right of veto, which is still on the cards, we would ultimately be shooting ourselves in the foot, for this would ultimately reduce the European area – which is, in fact, the largest or one of the largest common markets in the world – to a mere collection of national interests. We must take care to avoid this. The regret is that I listened, with some surprise, to the debate held on the preamble to decide whether our religious, or rather Christian, heritage should be included among the factors making up our common identity. I would point out that the identity of Europe has been wrought from an experience of painful emancipation that has not, in our history, been free of tragic events, although they have, in any case, always led to liberation and growth. I feel that, from a spiritual point of view, this is one of the elements which contribute to the greatness of Christianity and make it a universal point of reference. I would like there to be further debate on this. –  Mr President, naturally I extend my compliments for the work on the motion for a resolution but, considering it very carefully, I also have significant doubts, which I hope are not caused by some sort of accumulation in my subconscious. In fact, each time that we talk about these issues, it seems to be almost a form of hatred for the farmers who buy and use phytosanitary products to guarantee their crop yields and exclude qualitative problems caused by pests and diseases. I have a fundamental question: whether quality can be separated from the concept of profitability of farms. It is clear that when I talk of quality – with the breadth of meaning of this concept – I am referring to the various stages of the production chain. Studying the Commission’s proposal, I cannot see a fitting analysis of the costs and benefits associated with the initiatives proposed in the thematic strategies which have been put forward for our consideration. This is a point which we have included in our Parliamentary position, but, following a logical thread, I get lost, because immediately afterwards I would like to understand the reasoning behind item 2 of the motion for a resolution – I am referring to Amendment No 10 – which proposes a minimum objective of a 50% reduction of the use of pesticides. I consider this to be a completely arbitrary figure, which does not take into account the qualitative aspects of phytosanitary products and, above all, overlooks the economic aspects of crop protection. A final point concerns GMOs: this is a sensitive, problematic issue, too often dealt with in demagogic rather than scientific terms. In my opinion, use of the precautionary principle for GMOs calls for an appropriate level of consistency with the Union’s studies which are already underway and have not yet been completed. In this respect, the Commission has taken a very serious and wise position, indicating in the field trials when to evaluate the use of GMOs with the related risk of pesticide use. This is the right way to get tangible answers. – Mr Prodi, it is difficult not to agree with the situation as you have described it here today. I have two doubts, which I am sure you will be able to solve: first of all, I come from a long history of militancy in a party that must surely remind you of something, and during that time I have learned that too much realism in politics often means the start of conflict. It seems to me that your request to freeze at 1.24%, that is to say at the current level, the amount of GDP allocated – an allocation which, inter alia, is still based on 12 countries, whereas we are now 25 and will probably continue to expand – is a position lacking not only in ambition but also in courage, and I base that criticism on two facts. Firstly, we have just approved a quick start programme for public works designed to relaunch the idea of Europe and the single market, in which we need the Member States to be involved and to provide resources, which is why I find it extremely difficult to understand the position of the six Member States that have called for a reduction in the amount allocated. Secondly, in any negotiations, sticking to a position knowing that some of the Member States do not agree with the reference to 1%, appears to me to be quite a complex negotiating position from a tactical point of view. The second doubt concerns the timing. The current financial situation is programmed up to the end of 2006; the Commission must present a proposal before July 2005 and the agreement must be reached before May 2006. So then, why the urgency? So that we can rush things through in a Parliament whose mandate is about to expire? As Mr Wynn correctly pointed out, our Parliament has an extremely important role to play, but that role will be played by the Parliament to be elected on 13 June. –  Mr President, like all top class cyclists, President Prodi knows the right moment to break away from the pack. This is what he has done this morning in this speech which has given us all fresh hope. I would like to focus on two facts which produce opposing reactions: satisfaction at the Convention and bitterness at the outcome of the referendum in Denmark. These are two different results which, however, I feel are closely related and herald new times. Almost 90% of the population took part in the Danish referendum, a level which bears unequivocal witness to the citizens’ interest in contributing to European decision-making. On the other hand, the result, which we fully respect, may be an indication that the citizens do not yet feel in tune with the European ideal. The problem may well be a general one. It must be admitted that, after 55 years of Community life, there may well be a lack of feeling of belonging to anything other than a merely geographical Europe. The internal borders of today and the single currency of tomorrow are certainly useful, necessary symbols which will affect citizens’ everyday lives in a practical way and contribute to reinforcing the European ideal, but they will not fulfil the citizens’ call for greater heed to be paid to their views and for greater representation of their interests and, above all, of their hopes for the future. As we know, the objectives set at the current Intergovernmental Conference do not meet this demand fully, although the reform of the weighting of votes and the extension of qualified majority voting are steps in this direction. For a long time now, we have been talking about a post-Nice period during which institutions and operating procedures need to be reformed more effectively, also and especially with a view to enlargement. I and many others feel that the experiment of the Convention should be repeated, and that the formula adopted should be refined as we go along, so that the hope recently expressed by President Chirac that the reform processes will increasingly serve the purpose of bringing our institutions closer to the citizens will be fulfilled. The Convention was a Europe-wide success in terms of the formula adopted, the significant results achieved within the time allowed and the sense of accountability shown by all the participants. Let us endeavour to promote this model to ensure a future in which our hopes for Europe are realised. –  Mr President, it would appear a simple matter to give a response regarding the events in the Mediterranean if Minister Moscovici were to succeed in interpreting the desires of Mr Brok and to explain the situation which is giving us great cause for concern in the Mediterranean. We welcome with great satisfaction the news that the Commission intends to reinvigorate the Barcelona Process. However, we feel that the events taking place in this area bordering on the European Union are extremely important and that we need the undertakings and proposals outlined by Commissioner Patten just now to be more effectively implemented than has been the case in recent years. We consider the peace process to be vital for the development of the Partnership in the Mediterranean, but we see before our eyes all the difficulties which have prevented the completion of the Peace and Stability Charter. So we need fresh, maybe more tangible proposals making it possible to complete the Stability Pact, before the end of this year, or during the first six months of next year at the latest. Then there is the whole area of the association agreements, trade issues and the Med programme. It is true that some agreements have been concluded but many, too many questions remain unresolved or at best still open: the lengths of time involved,thetime frames for ratifying the agreements, the many difficulties which have arisen because of the inflexible nature of the negotiating mandate conferred by the Council upon the Commission, not to mention the bureaucratic difficulties which we have encountered over recent years. In our opinion, the initiatives supporting the improvement of the management of the Med programme are important and can contribute vastly to the progress of the economic and financial partnership. This considerable progress will allow us to achieve substantial results for the Mediterranean area, results which will contribute to bringing about economic stability, the liberalisation and privatisation process and structural adaptations necessary for investments and, last but not least, decentralised cooperation and a common management policy for migration flows and employment, policies which will allow the European Union to accomplish fresh development in the future in the southern areas of its territories. One final observation on the subject of the budgetary issues: we need to ask the Commission whether the current budgetary provision for human resources is in actual fact sufficient to reinvigorate the Barcelona Process, since there is no mention in the general budget of reviewing the financial resources. I will not go into the details of the appropriations because they were the result of a heated discussion in committee. Therefore, should the financial provisions intended for the regions in question be changed, as the European Parliament has requested, how will the Commission adapt its interventions? –  Mr President, with the adoption, without amendments, of the common position of the Council, the European Parliament is rising to the challenges of the current changes, to the demands of the new economy, at last setting rules in place governing the use of the Internet for trade and the provision of services. I will not go into the technical and legal details, which were covered by the rapporteur, Mrs Palacio with her usual competence, and I would like to thank her for the extremely skilful way in which she handled the legislative procedure for this directive.  A further point: the new economy is something which the European economic and social model will have to address, and it must exploit all the opportunities for development and new jobs it provides. We are witnessing a new industrial revolution. Consequently, the structure of the European economy is in need of legal infrastructures and, tomorrow, we are going to meet that need. The absence of legal infrastructures is holding back development. The internal market has become a reality and the fundamental freedoms enshrined by the Treaty of Rome as objectives have indeed been achieved, but whilst in the past the creation of the internal market was an end in itself leading to economic development, now new challenges have arisen for a market which is being forced to compete with the rest of the world by the globalisation of the economy.  The European economic and social model, which is based on the social market economy, is quite capable of dealing with world-wide competition, provided that it succeeds in evolving, eliminating all the unnecessary rigid constraints which are responsible for its continuing weakness in some areas. It is no longer good enough just to create any old market: the internal market must be competitive, regulated in such a way as to allow firms to produce and trade quality goods and services at costs which are compatible with those of competitors. This constituted the historic change brought about by electronic commerce – a revolution whose scope and implications are still not fully understood. We only need to think back to the issues we have worked on in the past: risk capital, highly skilled services, innovation tools and the protection of intellectual and industrial property. All these areas will have to evolve, and, in many cases, change completely.  A malicious thought has come to me: what will become of the petty national protectionist behaviour which we have witnessed in recent years? Now, at this time of revolution, a large number of issues dear to the European People’s Party must be reassessed. The social market economy also means solidarity and paying due attention to the more vulnerable strata of society which, in the industrial revolution sparked off by the Internet, also now include those who do not know how to use a computer. This potential for growth is our challenge for the future! . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in June last year, President Bill Clinton in the United States and Prime Minister Tony Blair in the United Kingdom presented to the world the map of the human genome, which had been arrived at simultaneously by their respective research groups. A month later,  brought the discoveries to the attention of the world scientific community in more detail. In the last few days, we have had news of the first experiment on the road towards human cloning in the United States. As often happens with day-after prophecies, voices are now being raised in alarm, unanimously expressing the most indignant condemnation and concern. The researchers themselves recognise that they have shown the way to those who might want to commit the folly of cloning a human being. These are two historic moments: little more than a year has passed between one and the other but it almost seems as if we are talking about two different periods in history. Beyond the concerns for the future, however, I think it is true to say that between these two historic moments a new approach to medicine emerged: curative medicine is giving way to a regenerative form of medicine oriented towards prediction. In the not too distant future, we shall probably be in a position to predict the diseases we are likely to suffer from and, more importantly, we shall be able to find ways of preventing these diseases from actually developing. Two opposing paths thus open up, as often happens in the history of human discoveries: on the one hand, there opens the wonderful road of therapeutic hope; on the other, there lies the grim borderline with the ethical horror of human cloning. We, therefore, have the paradoxical task of setting limits in the vast reaches of the unknown that lies before us. This is the greatest project of the new century and involves the whole of human kind. As people became aware of this, a need was felt to set up discussion groups to keep an eye on the ethical, social and legal implications of the new research programmes. The extraordinary possibilities of scientific and medical progress, seen in the light of its inherent potential, have indeed suddenly made alarm bells ring. It is this fear that drove Unesco to set up a bioethics committee to study the social implications of our knowledge of the genome, and that led, in 1997, to the approval of the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights. Then the broad consensus reached by the Declaration led the United Nations General Assembly to commemorate the 50th anniversary of another vitally important document, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, by adopting the Unesco Declaration on the genome. I have the feeling, however, that, when we get down to the details of the regulation, some of the principles that we have upheld so strongly dissolve away inexplicably. Although I am aware that this is a vast subject, I shall try to sum up the effects of the project on human rights and the dignity of human beings, which, of course, underlie our report. I shall summarise in four objectives the attempts and commitment to reconcile the longed-for progress of science with absolute respect for the sanctity of human life. The first thing that stands out is the progress made in experimental genetics for the purpose of gaining therapeutic benefits. Using our knowledge of the genome as a starting point, clinical experiments are then required. Medicine itself shows that a moment always comes when such experiments have to be carried out on human beings, and so it is clearly necessary to take every step to ensure the safety of the patients experimented on, so that there is no risk to their health or, indeed, their life, and free and informed consent must always be obtained. Secondly, from the little information we now have, it is true to say that our knowledge of the genome might enable us to mutate our genes. It is therefore absolutely essential to indicate, as from now, which doors we must never open. Here, I return to the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights, which bans interventions on the genome that affect the germ line. The events of recent days seem to me not to have taken this direction. Furthermore, knowledge is in a continuous state of flux and requires constant monitoring. From the information we have, the only certainty we can hang on to is the fact that embryos are human, whatever their fate may be. Thirdly, the doors opened by our knowledge of the genome lay us open to a serious risk that our privacy will be violated as a result of this very knowledge. We must be able to ensure that information derived from the knowledge of our genetic make-up cannot reach operators other than those who will use it for our own good. It is clear, indeed, that if it were possible to access information on the propensity of a particular person to a particular disease, we would be leaving ourselves open to a new source of discrimination, in the field of work, for instance, and elsewhere. We must be aware of this risk and of the need to take steps to prevent it. Lastly, another objective that comes into play for the future of human kind is the globalisation of research. It is clear that research requires substantial investment and that financial incentives are indispensable for progress. It is also true, however, that we cannot allow the need for the results of progress to become the undisputed heritage of all human kind, to be sidelined. If we cannot globalise the benefits of our knowledge of the human genome, we can say, right now, we have failed. Science, instead of being a means to create a fairer world, will have helped to widen the gap between rich and poor and will have become yet one more instrument of social division. In this respect, we must not forget the importance, not to mention the difficulty, of establishing proper, well thought-out patent regulations, the aim being the fair distribution of the benefits among all human beings: here again we see the balance between encouraging initiative and safeguarding human dignity and the instrument for achieving it. Concerned to safeguard human rights in the Member States, the Council of Europe gave precise indications at Oviedo: a ban on any form of discrimination based on genetic inheritance; a ban on interventions on the human genome that go beyond therapeutic purposes; an absolute ban on changing the hereditary genome; and a ban on choosing a baby’s sex. I believe we should uphold these points. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a series of challenges facing scientists, legal experts, students of ethics, sociologists and those like us in the institutions who have to mark out the new path. I approached the report – a daunting task, and I do not know if I have been up to the job you asked me to do – guided by a principle which, to me, is absolutely fundamental: I did not consider going beyond the point where progress came up against the sanctity of human life, where it started to conflict with respect for human dignity. At this point, I considered it should be progress that should alter its course. One of these alternative courses is now well known: it is a non-destructive alternative, as promising as embryo cell research but using adult cells. I believe we should favour this option since, as well as being promising, it does not involve any kind of ethical or social conflict. Respect for human dignity, in the context of biomedical research, implies that science should serve the people and not the other way round. All human beings must be protected at all stages of their lives, from conception until natural death, particularly if they are vulnerable or disabled. I am in favour of progress in scientific research, not least because it is a source of economic development, but I believe we have to ensure that it does not become a kind of death trap for human beings because due attention was not paid to the ethical principles that should underlie it. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have collaborated on my report. Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, my personal opinions on the reports which we will be voting on tomorrow differ in certain cases, as does my personal judgment of the mid-term reform of the common agricultural policy. I have nevertheless accepted the compromise put forward by Mr Daul based on common sense, like a good agriculturist, because I consider it to be a well-balanced compromise. What I found hard to understand – knowing his abilities, both in technical and political terms – was, for example, the Commission’s proposal on tobacco, because the total decoupling system proposed would inevitably lead – and not just in my opinion but also according to important European universities – to the complete disappearance of production with the impact on employment which the rapporteur, Mr Berlato, pointed out earlier. Moreover, I cannot understand why, unlike all the other production sectors for which specific production-related payments have been maintained, or where the Member States have been given the opportunity to implement partial forms of decoupling, the tobacco sector is the only one where the Commission has decided to apply total decoupling. Health reasons, among others, have been cited, ignoring the fact that dismantling the production of tobacco in Europe will not contribute in the slightest to combating smoking. On the contrary, the lack of European production would be immediately replaced by more imports from the rest of the world. Therefore, we used plenty of common sense in committee to maintain a common organisation of the market in tobacco capable of providing long-term prospects for development of the sector; we sought to achieve stability of the budget for the producers and to achieve equal treatment of all the categories of producers in a new common organisation of the market consistent with the need for stability in the agriculture sector and with the continued production of tobacco in Europe, including for strategic reasons. With regard to the olive oil industry, on the other hand, the reform proposed by the Commission can be broadly endorsed. In fact, although I do not agree with the decoupling system, as you well know, I think that this principle is acceptable for permanent tree-based cultivation such as olive growing, provided that it helps eliminate a significant amount of red tape regarding the support system and above all, enables us to apply measures concerning quality, traceability, conversion and promotion in order to encourage further development in quality terms. We also used our common sense with regard to the olive oil system; we have secured long-term financial support for farmers; we worked on the right to historical payment with reference to the average of payments paid to an individual producer as production aid during the reference period, and above all, we have introduced and pushed for financial intervention in support of quality products, traceability, market monitoring, the promotion and strengthening of producers’ organisations and specific environmental measures. I believe that the proposal which Parliament and the Commission will put forward on olive oil will be highly beneficial for this sector and I hope, Commissioner, that you will accept the suggestions which Parliament’s Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has provided on the tobacco sector. . –  Mr President, assuming a driving role in the European Union means implementing a series of guidelines which have thus far existed more on paper than as part of practical action. We have already committed ourselves to developing a lasting partnership with North Africa, Asia Minor and the Balkan states, but we are pursuing this too slowly. It is one of the duties of Europe, which has the task of being the driving force of a balanced system of trade, the market, development, growth and economic prosperity. This is also necessary in order to stem the disturbing migration flows of this last decade, which are a clear indication of the lack of a bilateral cooperation policy. It is precisely from these last two issues that we must start if we genuinely want to restore the Mediterranean area to its former glory and, above all, to resume our leading role with political dignity. It is essential for Europe to be at the forefront in this geo-political scenario, using the association agreements as springboards towards the financial instruments granted by the EIB and, in particular, by the MEDA programme. At the same time, the adoption of the Euro-Mediterranean Charter for Peace and Stability, in which the two sides of the Mediterranean cooperate actively and the bases of which derive from the rights of individuals, of the family unit, of cultural diversity and of religious dialogue, cannot be put off any longer. In fact, the issue of immigration, which is one of the greatest challenges, must be tackled in respect for cultural and historical differences and itself become a means of development. It cannot be denied that the European labour requirements are constantly increasing, but, at the same time, we must put an end to illegal immigration and the numerous existing cases of illegal trafficking. Failure to establish an effective, solid barrier blocking all that works against legality or the laws of democracy can only exacerbate division, annoyance and even violence once again, which would cancel out all the effort put in and undo any progress made in dialogue thus far. –  Mr President, on such a sensitive issue as that of the urgent subject under consideration, we are genuinely perplexed. There is absolutely no doubt that the act itself is to be utterly condemned. However, to use this to create a theory which is tantamount to a political attack, which, in effect, this is, on the Catholic Church and the Holy See is a wholly inappropriate action in respect of the moral authority exercised by the Holy See throughout the world. What we find even more worrying is the way in which the concept of accountability is being used to state that what happens to a man must be considered to be the moral responsibility of the Holy See. We are truly perplexed because, if such sensitive matters are exploited in this way, we will ultimately lose sight of one of the tasks that the Church is carrying out with such difficulty in the world, the safeguarding of human dignity. –  Mr President, without wishing to detract from the huge accomplishment of our fellow Members, this is a subject on which there will never be an end to analysis and debate. I would like to focus briefly on the electricity market. The situation in Europe reveals structural differences which I believe the launching of the liberalisation process will not alone suffice to overcome. The electricity market in Europe has been concerned with linking markets but not with creating uniform conditions for access to generation, institutional systems and symmetry in fuel choices, with a view to establishing competing symmetrical conditions in the generation sector. The cross-border regulation, through market mechanisms such as specific auctions, for instance, in countries penalised by internal production conditions, prejudices the situations of economic advantage for the end consumer deriving from the availability of imported energy. Given the differences in cost and the congestion caused by a demand for energy which is considerably higher than supply, the effect will ultimately be convergence of the external and internal prices. The nuclear issue would exacerbate the situation, creating the strange situation where some people are called upon to contribute to the cost of decommissioning in other countries when they are not actually in a position to benefit, because of the market-based mechanism provided for by the cross-border regulation, from energy produced by nuclear plant. While we feel that the cross border flow efficiency mechanisms proposed can be endorsed in the long term, we consider that applying them in the short term would be extremely harmful. Therefore, we would support the raft of directives only if this were achieved by means of phasing-in the market mechanisms, for the cross border regulation cannot produce identical positive effects for the end consumers of the Member States when there are disparities in trade flows. –  Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Provan and Mr Lehne. I will take as my starting point the position which was adopted at the second reading of the European Parliament on 13 December 2000 with 399 votes for the motion. An amendment adopted at this time radically changed Article 9 of the common position, enabling an administrative board to take defensive measures without consulting the shareholders once the bid has been made public. The defensive measures could have been subject to prior authorisation of the supervisory authority by the administrative board or in response to a request from shareholders holding at least 1% of the voting rights. Then we had conciliation. Conciliation was a lengthy operation on an extremely difficult subject. In view of the Council's downright refusal to take this amendment into account, amongst other things, we presented a substantial series of compromise solutions which ranged from the possibility of shareholders holding 20% of the voting rights requesting that a meeting be convened to discuss defensive measures to the introduction of a clause linking the entry into force of the directive on takeover bids to the entry into force of a directive creating a sort of level playing field, that is common rules of play under European company law. Nothing was achieved and the Council continued to refuse any form of compromise we proposed. I recall, amongst other things – and I am reminding myself more than anyone – that a proposal for a directive whose objective is to create a level playing field does exist: the fifth directive on company law, concerning the obligations of shareholders and third parties in respect of the structure of public limited companies and the powers and obligations of their social organs. This proposal was adopted by the Commission in 1972 and then lay untouched in the Council's drawers for over 10 years pending the common position, after which the European Parliament expressed its opinion on it on several occasions. The five years necessary to transpose .... –  Madam President, on behalf of my Group, I would like to request that the vote on Maaten report be postponed until July. –  Madam President, I would like to thank the Belgian Presidency and Commissioner Vitorino for their introduction and to make two points of a political nature. Firstly, I think everyone is aware of the active, prominent role taken for the first time by the European Union at the G8 summit. Although it may well be true that the results could have been better in practical terms – as other Members have stressed – I would like to quote a politician who is not from my own culture but who is known to many in this Chamber: “The longest journey begins with a single step!” And without a doubt, a completely new way of working was established in Genoa compared to that adopted for all the other G8 summits. Secondly, I am sure that the goal of all the Members of this House is to achieve increasingly closer Union between the peoples of Europe, and that we base our future work and our political activity on consensus, democracy and the law. Well then, with regard to the Genoa Summit and the messages which subsequently emerged through the media, what concerns me is an attempt to deny representative democracy. I find this unacceptable. It may be part of the culture of others, but we must reject violence because violence is contrary to the way civilised human beings relate to each other in our culture and, above all, we must adopt an approach which is totally different from this blanket opposition. I will end with two brief points for consideration. We did not support the resolution because – as I am sure some of you will remember – in July, we wanted a debate to be held so that we would arrive prepared, as the European Parliament, together with the Council and the Commission, at the Genoa Summit. This was refused us: we only had time for an oral question. Secondly, in my opinion, in view, apart from anything else, of the tendencies of some of the previous speakers, I would wait for the conclusions of the work currently being carried out by the Italian judiciary before firing accusations or making scathing judgments about the work of the Italian police force. –  Mr President, there is a problem with the text at item 11, page 10, in the part about mountain wine-growing. In the Italian text there is a contradiction in the third line from the end where it says that no distinction should be made between the costs of planting vineyards in lowland areas and on mountains. In fact, the sense of the committee’s work and, obviously, the sense of the amendments which have been tabled is that the costs of planting vineyards in lowland areas and on mountains should be compared with the costs of hill vineyards. –  Madam President, I do not wish to waste Parliament’s precious time on an issue which has already been addressed by Mr Santini and which has already been quite satisfactorily resolved in Italy. I would just like to point out that, as always, where Mr Berlusconi is concerned, every event is prey to political exploitation. This behaviour towards a Head of State is improper and inappropriate. –  Mr President-in-Office, if there is one thing that worries me about the situation in Europe – and we have had a few examples this morning – it is a type of politics that all too often appears to be self-referential. I am therefore sure – and the facts will confirm this – that your commitment to respond to the expectations of your European citizens every single day will mark out your Presidency. The rule in our speeches is to try to make a contribution to the reports. There is a great difficulty here, Mr President-in-Office, because the subjects dealt with have covered all our expectations. There is just one point to which I should like to call your attention: during the six months of the Italian Presidency the new rules on cohesion policies will be drawn up. In this context, I think the Italian Presidency should remind the European Union of a number of specific responsibilities, which are: to strengthen economic and social cohesion; to reduce the disparity in the development levels of many regions, which is still present in our Union and will be even more accentuated with enlargement; and to implement ideas of geographical solidarity, and in this respect we are thinking of the remoter regions. This is based especially on three principles: that without resources the cohesion policy will be difficult to implement; that the sectoral policies that the Union is developing – just think of the effects of the reform of the agricultural policy – should contribute to a great ideal of European cohesion; and that the new idea of European cohesion should also include the flexibility criterion. One last point, which my colleague Mr Tajani has already touched upon: all these policies will come together in the work of the IGC, confirming the Convention. Well, I believe a reference to the founding values of Europe, an explicit reference to Christian values, would be a contribution to our history. –  Mr President, it was with great apprehension that we read the McCartin report, which, I regret, we did not discuss until yesterday afternoon. Quite frankly, we were rather perplexed at the evaluations it contains regarding the agricultural sector, for, if the data and figures are to be interpreted so harshly for a sector which is undergoing such great, all-encompassing change as the world of agriculture is due to the common agricultural policy, we are concerned about the decisions to be adopted. Of course, the rapporteur, Mr McCartin, has recommended a path to take: a thorough review must be carried out of the agricultural sector and the rules governing it. It is regrettable that the codecision process on the decisions to be adopted for agriculture was not closed at the Nice Council. There will certainly be a great deal to do in that area. –  Mr President, I speak as a journalist. I must say that everything that has happened regarding this resolution has left me somewhat disconcerted and also highly perplexed. General Morillon has just reminded us that, as the European People’s Party, we had decided on this initiative on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day on 3 May. I think it is an excellent initiative because it supports those who commit themselves on a daily basis to the fight for freedom and put their own lives at risk to tell the world what is happening in vast areas of the Least Developed Countries or even – it is worth remembering – in Eastern Europe. Then something absolutely regrettable happened. Someone thought of exploiting this excellent initiative for their own ends, bending it to a partisan political position, a political position that has emerged too often in this House, in my opinion. I do not even want to waste words on this. Last Sunday, 18 million Italians gave their answer. I just want to see the result of all this. The likely result is that a fine, important testimonial will lose much of its importance because of the aloof detachment of the world of the media, which prefers to report conflict rather than the exchange of ideas. Above all, the role of this institution has been renounced and less and less respect is shown for politics. We only believe in the politics of values and the exchange of ideas; we do not believe in the politics of venom. Venom has never produced anything in history, and in general it has never rewarded those who have used it. We only believe in positive values. – Mr President, in stressing the excellent quality of the work carried out by Mrs Roth-Behrendt and Mr Böge, I would like to dwell on one aspect and take advantage of the presence of Commissioner Byrne. Clearly, our goal has to be total elimination, but we feel that this would be extremely difficult as the costs of incinerating the large numbers of animals which die on farms are objectively huge. Consequently, the economic burdens and the amount of technical organisation involved could be extensive, and so could the environmental impact of such large-scale incineration carried out at extremely high temperatures. In this sense, we ought to ask the Commission – and insist on a reply – whether realistic estimates of the quantities of material to be incinerated are already available to us, whether they have already been made or whether this still remains to be done, according to the various classification procedures of the States, together with an evaluation of the resulting organisational economic burdens, with subsequent referral to Parliament. It is therefore essential to prevent the adoption of different, uncoordinated paths by individual Member States from causing substantial distortion of competition and disproportion in the treatment reserved for producers. It is necessary to provide for the adoption of harmonised financial support measures, lay down common organisational guidelines and use applied research measures to develop new disposal technologies with less environmental impact which allow the use of forms of materials recycling which respect consumer safety requirements.  The development of common guidelines should allow firmer, more balanced and, therefore, more effective responses. For example, we consider that setting up mandatory disposal consortia according to the model already laid down by the legislation of some Member States could be a practical response to the need to limit the economic impact of disposal operations on breeders and, at the same time, thanks to the increase in the degree of social control over the proper use of the service, to the need to consolidate consumer and environmental guarantees.  We conclude that the adoption of the excellent regulation in question will require the development of a combination of initiatives, research and analysis, but also regulation and standardisation, and we hope that Parliament will associate itself with these measures. –  Madam President, there is a limit to the patience even of calm, restrained people like myself. We have witnessed a number of personal attacks on the leader of a political grouping, attacks based on information given in newspaper articles, none of which has been proved to be true. We are an institution: well then, an institution demands that respect be shown for all its members, and I would argue that this has not been the case over the last two months. The Italian people have made a clear, indisputable choice: we are in the presence of a Head of State. Therefore, the Members are all free to have their own – quite legitimate – views, but in meetings of our institution would they kindly keep them to themselves! –  I congratulate Mrs Jeggle on her report. Technically, there should not be any criticism of the motion under consideration for it faithfully follows the rationale behind Agenda 2000 which is an income support philosophy, even though, in our opinion, in the taking of planning and production decisions in the face of the current globalisation of markets there has as yet been no detailed analysis of the actual requirements of the farms.   We cannot stress this point enough: in our opinion, farming behaves like an economic system and, at present, the European Union’s focus is shifting towards mere public funding without defining guidelines and foundations which allow farmers to see what their future will be. Farmers are not having an easy time at the moment. The impression they get is that we intend to make the farming sector increasingly less productive in economic terms. Proof of this is provided by the recent events –– incidents which have occurred during the last few months linked to WTO negotiations – from the Kosovo intervention financing aid in this region – an irreprehensible priority, but implemented with debatable timeframes and procedures – to the cases which have already been mentioned by my fellow Members of cuts in the cereals sector or the delay in deciding upon the proposal for the sugar sector. If we want to protect the European agricultural model, which is synonymous with agribusiness, we must also make sure that this activity is not eliminated, and this may well result in an increase in employment levels as well.  We farmers have grown up with the European Union and we want to continue to grow with it. –  Madam President, the issue of food safety is one of the many unifying factors in the Europe of the citizens we want. As far as the European Food Safety Authority is concerned, I feel that the European Parliament has played a very major role: a great deal was achieved between first and second readings and, in my opinion, tomorrow’s vote will produce an extremely important report for, indeed, at this point, there is no longer any excuse for procrastination. We will have an instrument which will help us to keep a constant check on food safety in Europe. As regards this major work, achieved through the efforts of both the rapporteur and the committee responsible, there are still a number of small points which, I feel, will have to be specified: for example, it is extremely important that the management board should include a representative from the agricultural sector because the fact that we are dealing with a process means that all the sectors need to be represented. There are still a number of gaps as regards the procedures. We are definitely going to use operators from the food sector and people and companies specialised in all the parts of the food chain in order to ensure that the necessary information flow banishes all fears from the tables of our fellow citizens. One last question is that of the site. An amendment has been tabled seeking to ensure that the locations of the sites of the Commission and the other institutions do not affect the choice of site. The site should be in a place which has a longstanding tradition in food safety and which has scientific infrastructure and substantial resources in the field of safety. Of course, I must put in a word for Parma, for Parma is one of the most important places in the Italian agrifoods system. It is my genuine hope that the Laeken Council will take this candidate into due consideration. –  Mr President, I hope that the future will bring increasingly frequent and effective dialogue between the different elements in Parliament, for once again, this morning, I was listening to Members speaking, and can be little – or rather no – doubt that the position of the European People's Party was misinterpreted. We do not oppose the Paulsen report – we fully support it. There is a significant reason underlying our contribution, particularly regarding Article 5, which stems from the fact that, although this is a major, coherent instrument, its scope is still limited, for it concerns production measures and does not deal in any way with the commercial side of things. As a result, we European consumers will find ourselves continuing to buy meat and milk and their derivatives that are produced on the world markets using animal feedingstuffs which are in no way subject to the thresholds and limit values defined by the European Union, under a system which allows raw materials to be acquired on the international markets, where producers are free to mix all types of ingredients and formulations before selling their products on Union territory. We are calling for a comprehensive assessment of the issue precisely in order to afford better protection to farmers. In actual fact, a major measure such as the Paulsen report ends up having the adverse effect of opening the market to production systems whose quality is not sufficient to comply fully with the limits and threshold values which we require. This was the reason for our discussion in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and, when all is said and done, we would not like a repetition of what usually occurs, which is that when it comes to major measures it is always the farmers who pay the price, when they are the only guarantors of a production/agricultural land ratio which Parliament must preserve at all costs. I therefore invite all the Members to discuss the issue responsibly. We have absolutely no desire to defend specific interests; we simply want a compliant production system which does not involve going outside the market with measures of this kind. –  Mr President, I cannot do other than congratulate Mr Caudron and lament the fact that this will be the last of the major reports he has drawn up in the European Parliament. His work on this report is indeed remarkable and it opens up great horizons in many areas of research. I continue to hold a resolute position with regard to bioethical issues, on which I have to say – to you, Commissioner, and to my fellow Members – that I have nothing but doubts. I have been working on these issues for two years and I have nothing but doubts and only one certainty, which is the sacrosanct value of human dignity. I suppose I believe in the institutions which are shaping the future, and the European Parliament is certainly a point of reference and not just for Europe. We must realise that something unforeseen is happening which radically changes the rules of the game. We must therefore assess the results of the increasingly rapid innovation, we must reflect on the way biotechnologies are advancing and what impact they could have on the very nature of the human race. Biochemistry is only the beginning: in a future which is becoming increasingly imminent, we will have to adopt positions on the possibility of parents being able to alter the DNA of their embryos in order to provide their offspring with increasingly good genes. We will have to deal with the selection – for the purposes of genetic improvement – of dozens of embryos produced for that purpose. Cloning techniques will soon make it possible for individuals to produce copies of themselves, creating genetically identical twins which are capable of self-replicating, giving rise to a form of genetic immortality. It is an inherent part of the nature of each of us to fight against death, pain and suffering, and science is interpreting this instinct perfectly. The possibility appears to be attractive at first sight, but do we really realise how radically our existence might change? Is the possibility of genetic improvement techniques being used by dominant classes to perpetuate their genetic superiority over weaker social classes really so far off? I followed the long, anguished decision-making process on the Sixth Framework Programme closely; I witnessed a kind of resignation on the part of the Member States at their failure to come to an agreement on ethics. Aware of the difficulties of my colleagues themselves, I persisted with my amendment in order to send out a clear, consistent message. When I see companies springing up on the Internet offering to provide us with clones of ourselves at a high price, I realise that there is no limit to how bad things can get, but I also find in this a great incentive to persevere in the battle from which many – understandably disillusioned – people have already withdrawn. –  Mr President, Commissioner, the two reports in question, particularly Mr Valdivielso’s report, deal with one of Europe’s problems in great detail. The Mediterranean’s location as a major geographical point in terms of the stability and security of our continent has already been mentioned. This is all very well, but there is another issue underlying many of the points made in Mr Valdivielso’s report: a gap is forming between the absolute priority status of enlargement and the development of relations with the Mediterranean countries, which gives cause for concern. The Mediterranean is, in actual fact, an area which is still marked by zones of real poverty, and it is an area where the standard of living and quality of life are such as to require a major European presence. Whatever we are able to do to boost development of the private sector, to improve the conditions under which small and medium-sized enterprises operate, to modernise infrastructures and encourage the promotion of investments, industrial cooperation and trade, will be gratefully received, for hitherto there has been no support for the economic and production networks of the partner countries and industrial cooperation has played an extremely minor role due to the lack of direct support programmes and joint initiatives between European companies and partner countries. Therefore, we need simpler administration, a more strategic approach and rapid execution of programmes, for this might actually benefit the small and medium-sized enterprises rather than consultancy firms or financial brokers. I would like to end with a reference to the agricultural sector. The establishment of a free-trade area in the Mediterranean is, of course, a goal to strive towards, but first we must analyse carefully the plight of Mediterranean agriculture and Mediterranean farmers, and, before we do anything else, we must use the common agricultural policy to rectify an extremely dangerous drop in the income levels of our farmers in precisely the poorest area of Europe. – Commissioner, I speak to you not as a neutral referee but as a representative of the executive institution of the European Union. I am concerned, and this morning's speeches confirm this feeling of unease because the BSE problem, despite your explanations and the interventions you have mentioned – which are obviously a response to an economic crisis – represents a structural crisis to which we have yet to provide a response. BSE is a moral problem: over the decades agricultural policy has been constructed around agriculture, but now a veil of distrust is coming down over the sector that we, as institutions, cannot afford to allow. The agricultural sector is a sector comprised of working people, families who work the land and people who, occupied with everyday commitments, are paying a price which is not theirs to pay. It is absolutely essential that we rewrite the rules but we cannot ask working people to pay a price – which amounts to bankruptcy in many European countries – which is not theirs to pay. The response to an earthquake is not “We'll see what we can do”; the response to an earthquake is appropriate and, above all, immediate intervention. European agriculture is currently experiencing one of the most critical times in its history: our dealings with the agricultural sector are not without repercussion and ultimately not only farmers will be affected but Europe itself because, in the end, the farmers and people of Europe look to us, to Europe, to the institutions, as the entity that must meet their demands. – Mr President, this is in no way a criticism of you personally. I would like to thank the Minister for his availability but I am going to withdraw my speech, for two reasons. Firstly, this Chamber has a certain dignity, and that dignity is manifested in the way we work. Secondly, agriculture is going through an extremely delicate period. We are a political assembly and, with my farming background, I find it absolutely unacceptable that we should deal with agricultural issues in this way. We will decide as a group how best to bring tonight’s situation to the attention of President Cox. . –  Madam President, I propose inserting an oral amendment in the text before us because, otherwise, it does not make sense for the parts removed include the introduction. The oral amendment is as follows: ‘believes that the setting-up of such a forum …’, and the text then goes on in the manner with which everyone is familiar. Mr President, I would like to take up the issue raised by a previous speaker. The decision taken by the Commission on 20 February amending the description, designation, presentation and protection of certain wine sector products is important because the problem does not just affect Portugal but all European wine-growing areas. This decision merged the two categories with which we protected our highest quality products into a single category indicating quality wines and introduced the possibility for third countries to produce wines using our designations – using equivalent requirements as the only point of reference. In economic terms, this decision is a crisis for the entire European wine sector. At the same time, it also means that we are abandoning a series of quality guarantees to be given to consumers as regards European production. Amongst other aspects, the Commission’s justification – which stresses how this decision was taken to aid talks within the World Trade Organisation – is extremely worrying, because we are continuing to open up Europe to products for which we cannot provide the consumers with guarantees. Mr President, as regards the economic aspect, I can only congratulate Mr Garot on his articulate and accurate report. It is a report, which, not least, rekindles some of the issues and questions that we have put to the Commission during the current term: for example, the establishment of sectoral contracts to increase the level of quality, if necessary, but in any case to guarantee quality in agriculture; access to the European market for products from third countries that are subject to the same standards as European products; and a crisis management system. Furthermore, the report calls for consideration of the fact that the reduction and the fall in agricultural prices has not in fact had any effect on consumption. Having said that, however, and at a purely theoretical level – and all the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development know my position as regards the proposal for mid-term revision – I believe that we have taken on a huge responsibility, the effects of which we will be able to analyse only in a few years’ time, since the formula chosen for regulating the markets and stabilising prices – aid for production that is direct, fixed and de-coupled – will lead us to gradually dismantle the agricultural sector. We made choices based on a vision rather than on a foreign policy as regards Cancún. We have seen the results of Cancún, and we have seen how the talks at Geneva have been resumed. Among other things, I believe that some figures in the Garot report – the 7% increase in agricultural prices from 1995 to 2002 – refer to historical prices and do not, for example, take into account the inflation rate that has a marked effect upon agricultural prices. The whole of the agricultural situation projected until 2011 in the European Union is, in my opinion, very much more sensitive, and with much more complicated rules, than the situation presented by Mr Garot. –  Commissioner, Mr Böge has helped me prepare this speech, for he has already indicated the best way to deal with the issue. I would like to make three brief points. Firstly, the animal health policy adopted by the European Union during the 1990s appears to have been a good one. What we are witnessing during these initial months of 2001 is a quite extraordinary phenomenon, but one which requires careful analysis. We thought that foot-and-mouth disease was a minor problem, but the response from all over the world is forcing us to think again: there is a complex situation in Mongolia, specific situations in Africa and Argentina. This will probably mean the need for a rethink and the introduction of a World Trade Organisation regulation. The second point relates to the agricultural sector. The agricultural sector is, in any case, constantly the focus of traumatic events which are causing – I would say – a sharp, frightening drop in farmers' incomes. Thirdly, we need flexible policies. There should be separate measures for foot-and-mouth issues relating to zoos and rare animals. –  Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on an excellent report. The liberalisation of energy markets is an essential factor in the development of the economy. The objective of improving competition and lowering prices for all consumer groups, including the end consumer, must be pursued assiduously. The opening up of the market will lead to reorganisation on a European scale with common rules for all the countries. I hope that the Commission will submit comprehensive proposals to overcome the existing barriers to intraCommunity trade and ad hoc measures to deal with the Member States which do not apply the directives. We need to speed up the process of liberalisation in the energy and gas sectors by harmonising the Member States’ energy policies. To support the liberalisation process it will be necessary to introduce a benchmarking process, as we have done in other sectors, with the publishing of a Commission half-yearly report on the final price of European Union gas and electricity. This will allow us to assess the impact of liberalising the energy markets on the consumer directly. Guidelines will also have to be drawn up for harmonising the price observation criteria and processing the data gathered so as to ensure that maximum care is taken in comparing the situations of the different Member States. I would support the rapporteur in stressing that competition does not prevent Member States from imposing public service obligations in the general interest on operators. Moreover, I would remind you that liberalisation does not just mean privatisation, where a company continues, in practice, to be managed in the same way as before: liberalisation must mean opening up, interchange and competitiveness. I do not consider that liberalisation will have negative implications for employment, for the lower cost of energy will allow companies more room for development and create a greater number of jobs than are lost with the end of the monopolies. –  President Prodi, we understand how difficult it is to summarise in a short document the complexity of the issues dealt with by the European Commission. I shall therefore limit myself to only two, and I should be grateful if these could be looked at again.  We can see what is going on in the agricultural sector: we, as the European People’s Party, feel that there is an absolute necessity to review the terms of the common agricultural policy and, above all, to understand the scope of future strategies. Consider the financial burden the agricultural policy places on our budget. However, we must also consider the political cards which will be played on agriculture, and the issue of globalisation. You yourself recalled the Lamy proposal, an extremely important proposal but one which will have major implications for agriculture. Let us also think about what will happen on the food production front in terms of safety, what will happen in the fields of typical productions and biotechnology. If we then add the issues of enlargement and the relaunch of agriculture in some areas such as the Mediterranean basin, we shall want to know what Model of European Agriculture the Commission intends to create and, above all, we shall certainly want assurance that this agricultural model will not be placed on the foreign policy table and regarded as a bargaining counter in situations arising out of international requirements. The second issue concerns the Mediterranean, whose importance was shown by a forum in which we took part last week. Well, as regards the Mediterranean, substantial problems still remain unresolved. On this issue, we want a policy to be agreed which guarantees the same privileges for the South as those granted to other areas of the European Union. –  Mr President, I would like to make the same proposal for Amendment No 16 as for Amendment No 15: to mention both sides of extremism or not to mention either. Moreover, as I would not class myself as one of those who do not participate in committee work, I would like to remind the House that it was we who tabled the amendments and point out that we maintained a very balanced line in committee. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr Bowis on his excellent work. I must say, among other things, that we have recouped an extremely important aspect, the concept of a European Food Safety Agency as a network that should complement rather than replace the food safety bodies of the individual Member States. However, it is also necessary to call for a balanced approach to the issue because Articles 152 and 153 of the Treaty on European Union provide, as a general rule, for a high level of protection of human health and of consumers. The priority of absolute concern for humans is based on these principles. We must therefore ensure that the European Union has the highest possible food safety standards, but in taking this approach – which we unanimously uphold – we must also analyse the economic implications for the sectors involved in production. Article 2 of the Treaty states that the Union is committed to promoting the harmonious, balanced, sustainable development of economic activities. Therefore, any legislative measure concerning a sector such as the food sector, which is one of the driving forces of European industry – accounting for 15% of the total output of the manufacturing sector and employing 2.5 million workers – must be evaluated on the basis of this twin consideration, since both principles are intended to guarantee the general well-being of the Community. Any consumer protection operation only becomes feasible in terms of profit when it avoids unduly damaging the general economic well-being of the Community through placing disproportionate barriers in the way of the sector's production processes and therefore hampering economic growth and growth in employment. I therefore call upon the Commissioner to avoid excessive legislation and bureaucratic burdens as far as possible, particularly where small and medium-sized businesses are concerned. Mr President, even applying the principle that nothing is ever perfect in life, I have to say that I have difficulty in imagining a better Presidency than that which is coming to an end today. The Greek Presidency has succeeded in combining the major themes, already widely addressed – such as enlargement, supporting the Convention and establishing a very balanced, wise position in foreign policy – with everyday issues which are important for the citizens of Europe. Over these past six months, a relatively short time, we have brought a number of extremely important dossiers to a conclusion. We have made progress in financial , closed the energy  and implemented and extended major programmes such as Erasmus and Learning: I therefore endorse your work. I can see only one flaw: the conclusion of the position on agriculture. I am fully aware of the macroeconomic situation; I am fully aware of the need for the European Union to adopt a clear foreign policy with regard to the developing countries too. Nevertheless, the conclusion of the agriculture package last week is causing me some concern, for, in actual fact, we have instigated a process of dismantling our continent’s primary sector and we have, in reality, started to destroy the one genuine policy which has allowed the European Union to claim the title of Union thus far. I hope that there will be a rethink once Cancun is over, for, otherwise, Commissioner Fischler’s position, promotedby the Agriculture Council, will affect what is not just a key sector for the economy but, most importantly, a key sector for consumers. In other words, we ask farmers for investment and commitments to safeguard the quality of foodstuffs and then we dismantle the various measures protecting the sector: this is a policy which I really cannot understand. Commissioner Byrne, thank you for the explanation, which can almost be seen as an extremely accurate description of the situation. My speech is, I am sorry to say, based on press information, information which – at least as regards Italy – is awakening considerable concerns since, for example, dead peregrine falcons and migratory ducks, two species of a very resistant nature, have been discovered. I would now like to make two simple and precise comments. The first concerns the health aspect. We are not being caught completely unawares by the H5N1 strain, because it was identified back in 1997 and it reappeared as H7N1 between 1999 and 2001. Now, because the strain is continually mutating, we would ask the Commission what it intends to do as regards prevention, because – as some Members rightly stated before me – we always spring into action after the emergency arises. Some Member States are equipped with their own national laboratories, but the European Centre for Infectious Diseases must set up a group to monitor the ways in which the health situation is monitored in the Member States. The second aspect concerns the Commission’s work. As Commissioner Lamy announced, there is an extremely serious option, within the talks to revive the WTO, aimed at increasing the number of countries involved in the EBA initiative. So then, what are the guarantees offered to our consumers as regards the globalisation of markets? Does the Commission not believe that, on this subject, a think-tank should be set up, within the actual context of the WTO, concerning the relationship between globalisation and health problems? –  Commissioner, I am somewhat concerned, not about Mr Daul's outstanding work, but about the method. The world of agriculture is going through a stage with which you are quite familiar and which I therefore do not need to describe again. We, in the world of agriculture, need to know what kind of market we are supposed to be building over the next ten years. Although, on the one hand, the rules imposed by globalisation – that is the opening-up of our markets – can on no account be extended on the other hand, we must also take into full consideration what is an asset and a valuable resource for Europe as a whole. Well then, when we come to tackle this reform of the common organisation of the market, we must not wait for the horse to bolt before we fasten the stable door: the safeguard clause is going to expire next year. In the sugar sector, it is imperative for us to have a different relationship with the ACP countries but, at the same time, we are already working within Europe on a process of liberalisation, revising quotas and reducing export support, the implication of which is, however,that opening up the market will reduce competitiveness. Clearly, therefore, at a time of change such as this, if even the low cost sectors are damaged by agricultural policy interventions, there is certainly going to be some concern in the world of agriculture. Mr President, it is always difficult, in two minutes, to sum up or evaluate a Council with a full agenda like the last one which took place in Brussels. I am going to comment on the economic context, also with reference to many of this morning’s interventions. It is a fact that there is something wrong in our analyses, something that is wrong somewhere. We have come out of a global World Trade Organisation summit which has not provided the expected results at all, and the word ‘failure’ is a realistic way to describe it; we have a multilateral approach to trade policies which are currently in deep crisis; we must begin once more to ascertain whether the Doha requirements still do not have a basis, or whether the evolution of Doha will lead us to assume other positions. At the same time, we have a situation in Europe where inflation levels are essentially under control; the energy prices are, I would say, fairly stable and financial market conditions are not negative. So the question is: why is there no recovery? And economic recovery depends on series of factors which can only come into play in a European context. It is true that we are reinterpreting a Keynesian model readjusted to present times, but in this Keynesian model we need to speed up structural reforms. When we talk of structural reforms, we also have the political burden and task of leaving behind privileges of position which at this time are becoming onerous with respect to economic developments. The Brussels proposals are tangible and interesting. We have learned that politics is a job which must produce daily results, and that it is built on the basis of daily efforts and daily work. On 12 and 13 December, I think that we will see much of what was considered at last week’s Council become concrete proposals. –  Madam President, we voted on 4 December. The report is extremely complex; moreover, Amendment No 10 and Amendment No 35 were adopted under protest. We believe that this report needs further consideration, which is why we would ask to be able to discuss it and vote on it in January. –  Commissioner, the subject of this evening’s debate is certainly the basis for a tapestry of some of the major themes of world and European politics. For example, the first theme is without a doubt that world agricultural trade and the talks which are outlining and will define the aspects and modalities thereof represent the point of confrontation between market liberalisation and governments’ desires to pursue protectionist agricultural policies which go beyond production itself and affect what are known as non-commercial aspects too, such as environmental protection, food safety, the safeguarding and promotion of quality and the preservation of rural areas. We have listened to you carefully this evening, Commissioner, and it is clear from what you have said that the European Union has expressed a strong desire to negotiate an agreement for the further liberalisation of the trade in agricultural products. In our opinion, however, the agreement must be well balanced and must be an agreement which benefits everybody. It would appear that this is also the position which Commissioner Fischler has upheld on a number of occasions with regard to Community agricultural policies. Not more than a week ago, in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, he pointed out that the rules which emerge from the new rounds of talks next autumn must be fair and apply equally to all. Thus, the idea which emerges of cutting export subsidies is an idea which is certainly attractive and which I certainly support, but only on condition that other subsidies causing the distortion of the international trade market are also regulated. Then there is another major political theme which is connected with the subject of this evening’s debate. We need an overall perspective on the matter. The current economic situation, whose development will interact with and be affected by the future development of the agricultural sector, cannot be viewed purely in terms of international trade, for international trade is directly dependent upon the proposal to reform the common agricultural policy. What was to be a mid-term assessment review has become a veritable transformation of European agriculture. The Community policy guidelines in this sector, in addition to seeing the market as a means of economic development, are intended in Europe to ensure consumer protection – consider the recent creation of the European Food Safety Authority. This principle of food safety has been expressed and accepted at WTO level too, but it has only been accepted as an ideal. Much progress will be needed before quality equal to that of our own produce is guaranteed. The production costs sustained by the European agricultural economy differ substantially from those sustained by the developing countries, for the standards of quality, safety and health and hygiene are different. It is as desirable that clear international rules for the protection of agrifoods should be established at the forthcoming negotiating rounds as it is for the  to be duly valued and respected in the protection of recognised typical European products. European farms operating in a globalised context must invest in the quality of their produce to acquire specific market shares which are sensitive to new consumer demands. Production standards are now oriented towards ensuring the traceability of production from stable to table. In this sense, the possibility of marketing European agrifoods produce at world level must go hand in hand with the economic development of the less wealthy countries, with mutual respect for local agrifoods production in a global context of balanced growth regulated by both the economy and well-defined rules, but, above all, by the clear need for growth which benefits all to the detriment of none. Therefore, the basic issue before us now is that the proposal you have outlined to us this evening, Commissioner, contains a principle. We need a common agricultural policy which preserves the conventions we are used to. Your speech and the documents available to us uphold a principle which we find it very hard to accept, to the effect that the proposal for mid-term review, which provides, , for decoupling and the non-fulfilment ofblue box commitments, should take precedence over the WTO negotiating modalities, which provide for an endeavour to preserve the blue box aid instigated with the McSharry reform. There is therefore a need to redefine the negotiating modalities, removing the Blue Box chapter altogether and thus irretrievably eliminating the possibility of safeguarding direct payments in a multilateral context. If this should happen, we believe that it would be the beginning of the liberalisation of the European agricultural sector, which is essential not just for the sector as such but for the whole of the European economy as well. – Madam President, Commissioner, we have read the Commission’s proposal with some concern and I must pay tribute to Mr Cunha and the Committee on Agriculture for producing the very balanced report before us today. It is always difficult to talk about tobacco, for we always end up falling into the trap of populism. We know that today’s report is only one of the stages in the discussion, for the real debate on tobacco will start with the Commission’s proposal next year. However, there are three fundamental points to note. Firstly, apart from some rare exceptions, tobacco is produced in the poorest and most depressed areas of Europe. The populism we talk about is also a characteristic of conversion plans: in those areas – and I am referring to the situation of my own country, Italy, but the same applies to parts of Spain or Greece – it is not possible to convert production. And this populism continues to confuse production with consumption. As a great French writer said, although it is certainly possible to kick a habit, it is very difficult, for superhuman willpower and, above all, a great deal of time are needed. Well then, when it comes to smoking, it may well be that we should invest heavily – and this could be part of the Committee on Agriculture’s proposal – in an educational process which starts with schools. As regards this sector of agriculture, we must endeavour to realise that entire family networks are dependent on tobacco for a living and that sudden decisions such as those contained in the Commission’s proposal would lead to social and economic collapse that we cannot afford. –  Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Hyeronymi on the excellent work of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and I would also like to stress the extremely high level of agreement and synergy between the Committees, to the extent – and this is proof – that the main body of the report and those expressing the opinions of the different committees were all approved unanimously.  From a structural point of view, greater investment was necessary in the audiovisual sector to create fresh job opportunities for young unemployed Europeans and to stem the European Union brain drain to third countries, particularly the United States of America, where greater investment leads not only to better working conditions but also greater job opportunities. The issues worked on: we considered it necessary to alter the eligibility arrangements applying to the programme by reducing the number of partners from three to two; we considered it necessary to ensure that the training programmes set out in the proposal include support measures geared to the need to develop innovative content for the production of audiovisual formats other than drama and documentaries; we considered that it was important to change the legal basis to ensure that the component relating to support for the development, distribution, and promotion of European audiovisual works can likewise be brought within the scope of codecision, thus enabling Parliament to wield greater influence on implementation of the programme and its aim of fostering European culture.  Finally, considering development of investment in the European cinema industry to be extremely important, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy calls upon the Member States to pursue a policy of making sums reinvested for the creation of new jobs tax-deductible, and stresses the importance of establishing a guarantee fund as one of the measures necessary for the development of the independent audiovisual industry which encourages new talent and develops a cultural content of European tradition. –  Mr President, the Commission’s communication provides an in-depth analysis of the sector and certainly presents a series of positive proposals. However, in my opinion, further study of certain areas is necessary, such as the way the competition criteria are applied and how to tackle a market which is as yet imperfect.  Although it is true that excellent results have already been achieved in the mobile telephony sector, I would argue – and the rapporteur has put in a great of deal of work in this area which has certainly paid off – that the cable transmissions sector is developing new infrastructures which may require convergence of regulatory policies.  I believe that the final objective is liberalisation where the general competition rules guarantee the legality of the procedures, favouring a more competitive market and producing better results for the end user in terms of both services and price. These are further reasons why I feel that the directives’ application period should be limited, so that it can be determined to what extent the sector is still in need of legislation and whether that legislation would be able to react swiftly to the developments in a market which is constantly changing.  Finally, I feel that it is important for Parliament to express its disapproval of the auction system. Auctions tend to push licence fees up above their effective economic value, and this increase is then passed on to the consumer as prices are raised and it is no longer possible to introduce new services. The Member States which have applied this system should, moreover, not treat the profits as their own general resources but should use them to promote the development of the information society and electronic commerce, as they were called upon to do by the Lisbon Summit. –  Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Corbett and Lord Inglewood – whose work has not passed completely unnoticed – for the time and effort they have put into what is certainly not a straightforward report, a report which is based on the question of whether the quality of our work as Members of the European Parliament needs to be improved, whether we need more transparent and effective procedures and whether we need to organise our work according to specific rhythms and requirements. I feel that this evening’s debate confirms the need for us to change the way we work in the European Parliament. A full spectrum of positions have been expressed on Mr Corbett’s report, from opposition to support, veiled criticism and open criticism. This evening’s debate confirms this. Our political family – and this is the first time I have been in this situation – is going to hold a last, lengthy debate tomorrow to decide our final position on the voting list. I would, however, like to focus on the method. The Rules of Procedure are a secondary rather than a primary point of reference. Therefore, we are currently witnessing a period of great change in our institutional architecture. We have two years to decide whether we have made the right changes to our Rules of Procedure or whether further changes need to be made. At the end of the Convention’s work, we will certainly have to compare our work on the Rules of Procedure with the decisions taken on the legislative procedures. We must therefore have confidence, above all in ourselves, and decide to experiment with new ways of doing things. In conclusion, I have to say that, apart from the issue of topical and urgent debates, I do feel that there are problems, and the Corbett report certainly proposes a number of solutions. –  Commissioner, allow me to focus for a moment, in the context of Mr Da Silva's excellent report and the situation which she has just described, which is important and full of potential for the future, on a phenomenon which is assuming dramatic proportions: the floods which affected huge areas of Europe last week, primarily northern Italy but also France and Spain. We are acquiring the habit of describing our times in dramatic language: verbs such as to overflow, to flood, to burst banks, are part of a vocabulary which is becoming almost the norm. We feel that this is a dramatic consequence of the climate change taking place and that the social and economic system must provide some sort of response to this. Even the climate experts tell us that the very meteorology of our regions is changing. The exceptional amount of rain which has fallen over the last few days has served to offset the prevailing drought of the past year. We are told that the drought trend will continue into the years to come and worsen as time goes by, unavoidably interspersedwith the odd deluge and resulting floods. And so, now that, sadly, our dead have been buried, the journalists have left the devastated areas and the river, in this case the Po – I live by the Po – is again taking its normal course, it is time, as we say in Italy, to put up our umbrellas, not to appear prophets of doom but to evaluate once again the requirements and the remedies. Certainly, a great deal of progress had been made in recent years in the area of alert and alarm measures, which have made it possible to keep the scale of the disasters in check, but although this is important, it cannot be considered a primary factor. We need a defence policy dedicated purely to following up the recommendations of the experts. We need to be making political and regional planning decisions that protect the earth even when the sun is shining. I would therefore stress a few points. The first concerns the approach to man's built environment, which must not be overlooked. Construction must be oriented towards ever more stringent application of planning rules, standards and controls. In particular, there must be greater emphasis on man's agricultural environment. In the recent flooding of the Po, farmland acted as a floodway, protecting the urban centres, and agriculture channelled off the floodwater, bearing the brunt of it itself in order to protect built-up areas. Therefore, we must reaffirm the role of agriculture as the protector of the environment, a role which is wont to be sidelined, overlooked and undervalued on sunny days. There is no provision in agricultural or environmental policy or in town and country planning for this role played by agriculture. Europe needs to pinpoint appropriate forms of coordination in this regard. –  Mr President, Commissioner, many of the Members have already pointed out that enlargement is a major, ambitious goal. I would like to add that it is also a moral duty of Western Europe: 11 years ago, the Soviet system came to an end and the countries involved turned to us in hope. We must respond to this hope with generosity and farsightedness. Certainly, we must not disregard the difficulties involved in the project. For our part, we must implement the institutional reforms and they, on their side, must carry out major internal reforms respecting the Copenhagen and other criteria. In this respect, I would mention the amendments tabled by Mrs Oostlander to the reports on the Czech Republic and on Slovenia, calling for the issues regarding the minorities, which have not yet been resolved, to be tackled. I refer, for example, to the long drawn-out dispute involving the Italian community in Slovenia. In addition to the details and more specific issues, we must not lose sight of the historic import of this process. The debate which has been developing recently has thrown up four key issues: the date for the conclusion of negotiations, the accession date, the order in which the new countries are to join the Union and the transitional periods. My Group announced its desire to see the first negotiations concluded by 2003, making accession possible by June 2004. Certainly, the debate over the order in which the countries are to join the Union remains open, partly because the state of progress of their internal reforms will have to be assessed. I would consider it wise to adopt a solution which is a good compromise between an enlargement process which is not too spread out over time, which would certainly prove traumatic for our institutions, and an enlargement process which takes into account the legitimate timetabling expectations of the countries. As regard the transitional periods, I feel that we must be careful not to fall into the temptation to use them to reduce the impact of enlargement, thus detracting from the fact that the new countries belong to the European Union, in an endeavour to comply with the timetable we have set ourselves. On the other hand, it is true that these transitional periods can, if granted appropriately and in moderation, with great transparency, balance and a sense of accountability, prove to be in the general interest of all the countries. –  Mr President, since the issue of Regulation 820 in 1997, we have been discussing rebuilding a relationship between the consumer and the production world, and I have to say that a great deal has been achieved on both sides. Much work has been done to ensure that the consumer is in possession of the correct information. That said, I am briefly going to return to some of the issues raised by my fellow Members, each of which illustrated the situation in their own country. In Italy, selling unspecified adult cattle on the market would mean suppressing a sensibility which is linked to our cultural and food traditions, and so we would find ourselves in quite a difficult situation. Apart from anything else, considering that the price per kilogram of a cow carcass is considerably lower than that of a bullock carcass and even lower than that of a heifer, it would be difficult to justify the different sales prices to the consumer, who will naturally buy the unspecified adult meat out of ignorance. Therefore, we are drawing up a law giving the consumer the right to know what he is buying and at what price, according to principles of transparency, clarity and information. The work on the traceability of all the information regarding the animal’s country of provenance and country of birth and, in particular, where the animal was fattened, is therefore excellent. Indeed, we would like the traceability criteria to be extended to minced beef, which is becoming a very popular product. We feel that a precise reference to the point of slaughter and to the provenance of the minced beef would contribute to maintaining this relationship of trust that we are building between producer and consumer. –  Mr President, I would like to know whether I have understood you properly. The Group Chairmen will speak, then we will have the Commissioner’s and the Minister’s replies, and then the debate will be resumed at 9 p.m. without the Commissioner and without the Minister. Is that right? . –  Mr President, it is a pity that the Commissioner is not here because I wanted to start my reflection on the own-initiative report of which I am the rapporteur by saying, on the basis of today’s debate, that I am sure he will find the atmosphere in the agricultural sector much more friendly than that in the fisheries sector. The subject of our own-initiative report is the mid-term review laid down by the reform known as Agenda 2000: it is an analysis stage which comes after a phase in which the second major reform of Community agricultural policy was introduced; over recent years, Community agricultural policy has taken on a much stronger, much more definite connotation than that intended by the signatories to the Berlin Agreement in 1999. This is because European agriculture is going through one of the most difficult, complex and sensitive periods of change in the existence of the common agricultural policy, and the difficulty currently facing agriculture – a difficulty which is quite obvious to the farmers, for whom the European effort is a major point of reference – was also mirrored in the preparatory work for the report, in the debate in committee and in the difficulty of putting together a report with a broad consensus. In actual fact, there are two major philosophies underpinning this own-initiative report: on the one hand, there is the school of thought which asserts the need to preserve the current framework of the common agricultural policy and declares itself to be virtually opposed to any change which could alter the nature of the objectives or principles of the common agricultural policy as we know it; on the other hand, there is the school of thought which calls upon us to intervene with hefty measures, measures which would considerably alter the current legislative framework, to take into account the crisis situation in a number of sectors, to take into account eastward enlargement, under negotiation with the European Union, to take into account the WTO negotiations and, most importantly, to take into account the need, of which farmers are perfectly aware, for a direction to be found for the market and for production systems too which will guarantee an acceptable level of income in the long term. This is therefore one of the thorny issues we need to address. The MacSharry and Agenda 2000 reforms ensured – so it is written – a reasonable and stable income for producers. It is no longer possible to monitor or verify this in many European countries. Apart from anything else, we do not yet have an analysis framework providing accurate data on changes in producers’ incomes which would allow us to carry out a review of the effects of Agenda 2000 in terms of income too. There have been many exchanges of opinion and ideas, and I would like to comment on some of them for I have tabled a number of amendments on points of importance to me which have been the subject of lengthy debate. Firstly, we call for a direct aid system where the granting of direct payments is decoupled from production. This is certainly a viable method of dealing with the changes taking place in the agricultural sector, but the minimum level of income received by holdings must be taken into consideration as a parameter. We do not have this information at present and, above all, we cannot even remotely hope to make the income of holdings dependent solely on State intervention. Secondly, there are two instruments which have been on the table for a long time: modulation and degressivity. Modulation has thus far been voluntary. In the Member States in which it has been applied, it has not yielded the results that might have been expected. I realise that modulation is a system for transferring resources and funds. It is a perfectly good system. Transferral, under the present proposal to switch from a voluntary to a compulsory system, is certainly a viable working instrument, but, if it is diminished by a mechanism which does not allow review or analysis according to the formula we have identified in the own-initiative report, then I can see it causing holdings major revenue problems and requiring very close analysis. Consider, for example, a large farming country, France. Just a few days ago, the Minister for Agriculture revealed that there was a surplus of EUR 300 million in the modulation system developed and updated over the last two years, which remained in the hands of the State and was not redirected to the agricultural holdings. If we then propose to combine modulation and degressivity, applying them side by side, we will find ourselves in the situation, clear from any econometric model, where the income of holdings is falling by, in the case of a medium-sized holding of 100 hectares, almost 30%. This aspect therefore warrants a great deal of attention. I will close with one last point. I have been accused of failing to include the concept of multifunctionality in my own-initiative report. Well, my task was to produce an own-initiative report firmly anchored to the first pillar. The aspects relating to changes in the development of agriculture are dealt with exhaustively in Mrs Rodríguez Ramos’ report, with which I identify, which I voted for and which I fully support.However, in the context of a report, such as Mrs Rodríguez Ramos’ report, on rural development in the world, we must on no account forget that agriculture is an undertaking, it is an economy, and it needs a first pillar which allows Europe to assume a strategic position on the major international commodities, especially in the light of the decisions of the US Government relating to the Farm Bill. –  Mr President, I can only endorse the conclusions of the final Göteborg document. Moreover, I would like to stress a few points which I feel are extremely important for Europe's growth: pensions and the project for financial sustainability, the new cycle of negotiations on international trade reform, the issues relating to public health and a strict relationship between the use of natural resources and economic growth. On this point, for example with regard to some of the areas related to agriculture, we might have wished for more ambition, partly because the current fear is that some of the situations which have been consolidated within the European Union, specifically those relating to the agricultural sector, will be sacrificed to enlargement matters. With regard to food safety in the context of enlargement too, in our opinion, the tendency is sometimes to subdue rather than aim towards a way of working which will provide guarantees to the consumer. We are still too fresh, if you will pardon the expression, from the crises we have had in recent years – dioxins, mad cow disease – not to see food safety as a priority in the political decisions we have to take over the next few years. Now, on a political note, we feel that, in some areas, the relationship between the Council and the European Parliament has not been what we would have wished it to be, and on extremely important political matters such as the relationship with Russia and the space shield, for example, we have seen alarming acceleration. If we do not have an adequate debate in Strasbourg, we will be in danger of creating a series of points of no return which could cause deep rifts, particularly in a politically sensitive period such as this one, where some countries – such as Italy, Spain and Great Britain – have stable governments but in others – such as France and Germany – things will change every time there is an election. Therefore, some positions might be subject to pressure which is due more to electoral positions than overall European positions. In our opinion, the European Parliament must have the extremely important role of redressing the balance. –  Mr President, the actions of the European Union, the Commission and, in particular, Parliament, in their endeavour to regulate the tobacco industry, continue to give the impression that they are disregarding the needs of the workers and growers of the industry – and by the industry I mean the production, industrial and, in particular, tobacco-growing sections. You are all aware of how heated the debate in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy was. There have been a large number of amendments, including the one tabled by myself, attempting to defend the production sector and the tobacco-growing sector in particular.  In Europe, 135 000 families work in the tobacco industry and it employs as many as 800 000 workers, most of whom are seasonal workers hired at harvest time and during production periods. This is a major industry which, moreover, hires more women than men to do seasonal work. Furthermore, from a production perspective, it would be very hard to change from growing tobacco to another crop. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has adopted an amendment withdrawing subsidies for European tobacco production. We are concerned as to whether this instrument will genuinely be an effective means of reducing tobacco consumption. The most immediate effect will be to weaken the situation of European tobacco-growers to the benefit of production elsewhere in the world, and the price reduction will penalise the entire production system of the European continent.  Are we saying that, in order to reduce smoking in Europe, it is necessary to kill off European tobacco growers without even any guarantee that this will reduce cigarette consumption by a single cigarette? From where I stand, a responsible smoking reduction policy needs to be based on an awareness and prevention campaign, especially in schools. It should not penalise those who are contributing to Europe’s wealth. –  Commissioner Byrne, today Parliament is going to vote on a very important package, the one on hygiene, and I must say that the initiative started by the Commission White Paper on food safety to recast all food legislation has been one of the topics that have made this parliamentary term stand out, with its basic aim of assuring consumer health and safety, at least from a legislative point of view. This is an absolute priority, given the ‘poor hygiene’ episodes that have occurred in recent years and also in view of the backlash that many primary sector activities have suffered as a result. If we look at the compromise position proposed by the Commission, the Council’s response and Parliament’s own position, it is clear that, as with all compromise and mediation positions, everyone would always like something extra. I believe, however, that this is a very sensible compromise position because it is a compromise between the demands of producers and those of consumers, between good business and safeguarding the basic right of citizens to safe, healthy food and produce. There are three considerations I should like to make. We should have preferred it, of course, if the regulation on the hygiene of foodstuffs provided for a perhaps more forceful implementation of the HACCP system and probably referred more closely to the . We should probably also have liked greater insistence on the ‘from farm to table’ principle, a principle that is very attractive to consumers but which needs to be made much clearer and involves additional costs to the farming sector. Lastly, we should have liked to underline more strongly the fact that we consider it essential that regulations approved in the Community should be equally valid in all the Member States; it would therefore be appropriate to restrict the possibility of approving changes and to authorise them only to give greater protection to an individual country’s traditional products, without ever relaxing food standards and safety. One final word on Amendments Nos 9 and 14, Commissioner: they are dear to us; they put us in the forefront, so to speak, as Parliament. –  Mr President, Commissioner, if our aim is to produce both legislation providing full legal certainty and, at the same time, rules which will allow the citizens to derive maximum benefits from the internal market, then the regulation before us is certainly a step in the right direction. We have worked hard on this regulation, and the number of amendments cited by my colleagues and the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market too are evidence of the importance of what we consider to be a road that Europe must take without fail and which we want to build. The internal market needs rules, and the rules must be evaluated in the context of everyday life. The regulation broaches a number of extremely important issues. I will not go back over those which have already been mentioned by my colleagues. There is one point, for example, on which we would like there to be greater reflection and that is the settlement of disputes. We would also like to try experimenting with self-regulation in this new world in which consumers enter into dialogue with the market. Still on the subject of the disputes which are never absent from commercial relations, we call upon the Commission to expand this pilot stage of the European Extra-judicial Network. Moreover, once again as my colleagues have recommended, we would like to see an increase in the activity of the Expert Group on Commercial Communications. This group, set up in the dim and distant past in 1998, now needs to be adapted to deal with the increasingly urgent development of the internal market. Then there are a whole series of points already mentioned which we fully support. In conclusion, we feel that this is the right way to promote our ideal of Europe through the internal market. –  Madam President, Commissioner, we are being asked to express our views on a subject which in itself involves a very broad spectrum of activities. It is easy to talk about the right to asylum pure and simple, holding it up as a sacred principle, and it is all the more clearly sacred at this sensitive moment when the world is shaken by such dramatic events; solidarity and goodwill are the feelings that we all, in our bewilderment, feel we want to appeal to so that we can build new, better structures between people, worlds and cultures. It is also clear, however, that, right now, we must not deviate from the objective of achieving tangible situations and establishing practical prospects that are closely linked to reality. In the proposal for a directive, as Mr Schmitt has already mentioned, there are some – in our view – complex concepts that conflict with the direction we had embarked on in our work last year and open up certain political problems that, in our opinion, are quite serious. Is it right, for instance, to accept that a third country that is considered safe should always be so regardless of the tangible fact that links it to the asylum seeker? Or that a manifestly unfounded application should, even so, always give rise to a complicated, expensive verification procedure? It goes without saying that certainty on this is in the clear interests both of those who have serious grounds for seeking protection and of the host country itself. I do not want to go into the legal and philosophical concept of what constitutes being manifestly unfounded, but on matters which are now more sensitive than ever such as that addressed by the Watson report, we must show our determination to build without putting up obstacles, and to help without negative or even destructive effects on our social systems. Therefore, when we look at the wording on the extension of the right to asylum, the fast-track procedure and the appeals procedure, I think that, on careful analysis, my doubts will be widely shared. –  Mr President, in just two years’ time we will be facing a series of important dates for the common agricultural policy: from the verification of Agenda 2000 to the review of the common organisations of the market for seed plants, sugar, milk, and at this point also olive oil. By chance, by a strange stroke of luck, we have the competent Commissioner here today. The financial resources and the aid that the producers expect will become a sort of financial bottleneck which must in no way affect the solidity of any of the above-mentioned dossiers. Oil in particular should be safeguarded as a sector because it represents European agricultural values throughout the world. We must work so that quality and safety and also the multiple uses of the product can be the key to the future of Community olive oil production. To achieve this aim it is necessary, however, that in the period before these important dates arrive there should be a review, reappraisal and enhancement of the role of producer associations especially; in fact, the centralisation of the operators is essential for achieving consumer protection based on labelling and traceability. From this viewpoint, the introduction of a clear classification of oils can only result in greater access to the competitive advantages of guaranteed production. In addition, alongside the financial aspects of a sector like that of oil, the Community law on designation of origin must necessarily be revisited. The European principle must in fact become that of identifying the origin of the oil with the place where the olives are produced and no longer with the place where they are crushed, as has debatably been the case until now. In this context the blending of olive oil with other vegetable oils, in the absence of labelling that will identify each component in the blend, damages the image of the producer, the consumer and the . It would in fact be deplorable if we were to find ourselves facing not just the existing uncontrolled piracy of digital music but also unfair competition in foodstuffs, playing on false denominations and bogus labels. Adulteration must be repressed, especially in the area of foodstuffs, because what is at stake are the interests of consumer safety and the producers’ right to entrepreneurial freedom. The whole olive oil sector, supported by the political institution at whatever level, should assume the responsibility of carrying out the activities of management and market control through concentration and the marketing of the product, to the benefit of quality, certification, research, promotion and traceability. I thank Mr Peres for the truly excellent results of his work. This evening I take the opportunity – and I shall repeat this in the House tomorrow – to say that we have a problem with the Italian translation: the translation of ‘’, referring to oil, as ‘’ (crude) is not acceptable in my country and so tomorrow I shall ask for the Italian version to use the term ‘’ (natural) or ‘’ (virgin). –  Commissioner, I support Mr Kreissl-Dörfler’s report and I congratulate him on the unanimous consensus reached in the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease. The committee has shown that, in the light of events thus far, the European Union can no longer get away with not altering its policy and ensuring more effective use of vaccinations, given that our aim is to keep the greatest number of animals as possible alive. The concerns relating to animal welfare and the social and psychological damage caused bythe considerable sacrifices demanded by last year’s crisis must take precedence over commercial matters, as the Chairman, Mrs Redondo, has rightly pointed out. I fully support Mr Kreissl-Dörfler’s report because, taking an epidemic as a starting point, he has described a general situation which encompasses more than just the issue of foot and mouth disease. For example, take the proposal to extend compensation to sectors associated with livestock breeding, which were – albeit indirectly – heavily penalised by the problems caused by foot and mouth disease. Again, in considering the idea of a guarantee fund or an insurance scheme covering the costs deriving from epidemics, which are increasingly rare and cause extensive market distortion, we are addressing all the problems of the farming world. In this regard, Commissioner, we need to reflect carefully and at length on the role of the public veterinary services. Because of the increasingly disturbing general state of public financesin many of the Member States, we are witnessing a drop in the number of veterinarians, which is totally unacceptable, and we also need the public veterinary services to develop a new kind of relationship with the farmers: we need new forms of cooperation. If the legislative package you present includes a revision of directive 92/102 leading to a very close relationship between farmers and the public veterinary services, then it may well be that, in the future, we will be able to avoid a whole range of situations that we have experienced hitherto. Mr President, there is one fundamental reason why this debate becomes heated at times. It would be very easy to draw on legal arguments. Many Members have already raised the basic question: can the European Union, with great difficulty, adopt an initiative, which does not have backing in all the Member States of the Union? That would be one of the many possible – if you will forgive the expression – hypocritical approaches to the issue. On this matter, there is a basic problem, which politics cannot resolve: politics is the art of the possible and, without a doubt, the art of compromise, but compromise on fundamental values is impossible. Therefore, on this matter, with due regard for the positions of all the Members and with due regard for the positions expressed by the Commission, all the attempts that have been made thus far seek to open the door to a new process, and that process involves tampering with the principle of life. For some, this path is completely acceptable, and for others it is a path which is not acceptable because it runs counter to certain fundamental values. That is why, as I see it, none of the attempts at compromise that have been made – although I commend the wisdom, ability and capacity of the Members – has achieved the ultimate goal. As regards the process in question, I would draw your attention not so much to the initial phase, the phase we are experiencing now, which is extremely important because the treatment of a number of degenerative diseases is at stake, but to what will happen when we have decided to meddle with life: not in the short term, that is, but in the medium and long terms, and these are all questions of eugenics. We are going the same way as we did with the atom: in exploring the possibilities of the atom we made the atom bomb, and now we need rules to take us back a step. At this juncture, therefore, on a matter such as this, which is much more complex and much more sensitive, there may well be a need for further reflection. –Mr President, I would like to start by expressing my heartfelt thanks – not just a routine thank-you – to Mr Manders, the rapporteur, and to Mrs Niebler for the enormous amount of work they have done. I would then like to make two points: one specific and the other general. The specific point is also a response to some of the previous speeches. If I am not mistaken, the farming world welcomed the proposal for a directive on environmental liability, particularly because the Commission had opted for a horizontal approach. During the work in Parliament other viewpoints emerged in committee and, as a result, it is now very difficult to accept the idea of farmers being liable for environmental damage the causes of which are beyond their control. In this regard, any extension of the directive’s scope – a compulsory financial guarantee, reversing the burden of proof and, most importantly,excluding some means of exemption – would make it extremely difficult for farmers to manage their activities. In practical terms, a farmer might be forced to pay compensation for environmental damage caused by an activity, even though he has been issued with a permit to perform that activity and has observed all the relevant legal provisions. I am sure that farmers are willing to shoulder their responsibilities, but not when they have no control over the cause of the damage. This is the reasoning underlying our work in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and we have adopted this approach, developing a line which will not have serious consequences for the farming world or for the rural environment in general. I hope that the rapporteur will agree with this position and that the European Parliament will endorse it. As regards the general point, it too reflects a fear. Extending the directive’s scope beyond that of the Commission’s original proposal would, as I see it, be likely to jeopardise the certainty of the legal framework proposed and the resulting insurance guarantees, thus making it difficult to enforce a principle useful to European society in general. –  Mr President, it is a rare occurrence but, this time, I am forced to speak on behalf of my nation. In fact, the entire Italian beef industry is extremely concerned by the proposal, and not just because of the maximum limits it imposes on travelling time. Of even more concern to us is the fact that the proposal stipulates that animals for further fattening, which is a completely natural stage of the livestock rearing process, should be subject to the more restrictive measures laid down for animals for slaughter instead of the less restrictive measures laid down for breeding animals, even though the further fattening stage is a natural continuation of the livestock rearing process lasting a few months. We fully understand the report’s objective, which is to replace the transportation of live animals with that of dead meat as far as possible. However, our situation is quite out of the ordinary, involving 120 thousand farms and a flourishing processing industry with business activities ranging from slaughter to packing, which would be greatly compromised by such a measure. Here are some statistics, Mr President, Commissioner: France has a cattle stock of over 20 million head and an annual slaughter rate of 5 million head; Italy has a cattle stock of 7 million head and an annual slaughter rate of 4.5 million head. Clearly, this consolidated production cycle, which is vital for the economy of our country’s livestock sector, would be completely disrupted by the introduction of a maximum journey time or distance limit. Moreover, there are no scientific grounds for such a limit and it would serve purely exploitative purposes and have consequences which, as I said, would be extremely difficult for the sector as a whole to bear. It can be seen from this that the sole motive behind any proposal to place an absolute limit on travelling time is actually other countries’ desire to strip Italy of a substantial part of its slaughter trade and to take the place of our producers in supplying beef and veal to the Italian market. This is not the kind of Europe we want! –  Mr President, talking about food is not very easy these days. If we then turn to purely technical aspects such as those addressed by Mr Lannoye, the complications increase. We find ourselves in agreement with his report, except for the point raised by Mr Thyssen. However the point I want to make is not about the actual merit of the report, but rather about an evaluation that this Parliament needs to carry out over the next few months on the future legislative method. We also found certain points in this report where we have either aggravated the situation or intervened in legislation already dealt with in the course of the last two months, and here I am thinking, for example, of problems relating to water. Coordinated production of legislation can, I think, only be helpful to this institution. Another aspect I want to bring up is the excessive regulation to which we subject our legislative process, which is not reflected in our Member States. In the Member States a whole series of areas are dealt with through the method of circulars. As regards the report we drew up last year with the Commission, we will have to think very carefully about those issues, because I do not think a consumer who is buying honey is immediately aware of whether it is honey produced in beehives or filtered honey, even if the label is clear. As our task is to be impartial and we need to produce legislation that is comprehensible to European citizens, perhaps further thought is necessary over the next few months. Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein, the Parmalataffair is a systemic crisis because it was made possible by a world network of complicity and omissions, the key players of which were banks, financial institutions and external and internal control bodies, both public and private. I believe that the Parmalat affair gives a good indication of the negative aspects of the globalisation of financial markets, the internationalisation of which allows fraudsters to easily conceal and manipulate information. This shows how a necessary combination of transparency, efficiency and stability is all too often theoretical and, above all, fragile when faced with perverse desires rooted in a lack of ethics. I am sorry to say that the Parmalataffair is similar to far too many financial scandals that have been portrayed in the news recently: and for a start. It is unpleasant and difficult to have to admit it, but something in the world balance has gone wrong and has dragged everything into the abyss, including uninformed savers and operators, who were supposed to be on the alert and prevent this from happening. We do not want to deal with individual responsibilities, nor should we have to, because this is not our job; our job is instead to undertake to prevent similar cases from happening again. It is essential to combat infringements and fraud in such a way that financial analysts will not then find themselves in a situation where they have to advise their own clients to make criminal investments. Amongst other things, we have also looked over the Commission communication of May 2003 to the Council and to Parliament on modernisation of company law. In the motion for a resolution that we are presenting there are guidelines, which take into account the impact that the Parmalataffair has had and could have on its workers, savers, banks and the good operation of the financial system. It is our task to try to reverse this course, to try to protect the savings of millions of people and to regain the full trust of financial market investors. It is essential that we learn from this case and react in an appropriate way by objectively assessing what happened, by making projections in future and by not just hastily looking for scapegoats. This is about establishing what did not work, what the inefficiencies of the provisions are, about proposing solutions to them, and providing for new public control powers. We can have different political ideas on the aims of the regulation, on the production and distribution of income, but we must all agree on the fact that there must be no defrauding. Perhaps the crisis of legality is not just an issue of people but also of institutions, which are, perhaps, unsatisfactory. Perhaps the rules need to be looked at, re-thought and reviewed, and to do this we need to cooperate. The competent authorities for financial control of the different jurisdictions within the Union must cooperate. Cooperation is also called for with third countries; not just Europe but also the United States are part of this plan which is of primary importance. I also urge the Commission to monitor any new measure which concerns the role of rating agencies. I will take the liberty of again asking the Commission to incorporate into the action plan on corporate governance measures designed to prevent conflicts of interests, whether they be those concerning investments made by banks or other financial institutions in listed companies controlled by internal stakeholders or, rather, those concerning cases of financial analysts who work for investment banks and advise their clients to invest in companies which are provided with profitable services by their bank. Furthermore, we need to make shareholders more responsible and more involved. Guaranteeing optimum transparency before and after transactions is absolutely necessary for investors in the field of financial instruments. It is, therefore, desirable that a European authority is created to – impartially – examine European financial markets and to look into cases with cross-border implications, along the same lines as the recent modernisation of European competition policy. Furthermore, I call on the Commission to adopt a decision, as soon as possible, on the compatibility of Italian Government provisions with European provisions as regards the dairy sector in relation to the Parmalatcase. Companies in this sector, the historic contributors to the Parmalatgroup have for some time been in a state of extremely serious financial liquidity, which could lead to a crisis for the whole company. If the request for help were to be deemed counter to the rules on free competition, it would be the beginning of the end for a sector that boasts tradition and is of undisputed quality at European level. The Parmalatcase calls for a great sense of responsibility, above all at our level, at European level. There are three areas where we must act. I believe that we have drawn up a well-founded report and that the next Parliament will certainly be able to engage in better cooperation with the Commission. –  It would be arrogance to attempt to sum up the Copenhagen Summit in two minutes. I will therefore limit myself to a few points. First and foremost, I would like congratulate the Danish Presidency – and these congratulations are not just formal, they come from the heart – on the skill with which it has brought lengthy negotiations to a successful close. Secondly, we are witnessing an historic period of history, the full meaning of which we may not yet have grasped: for the first time in the history of mankind, a union of States is being built on the basis of a project of civilisation and shared values without recourse to military force. This means that we, the European Parliament, and the Council and the Commission, must evaluate very carefully something which President Prodi mentioned, namely the fact that, at this juncture, now Europe has been built, we need to make the rules. The rules of our founding fathers, the rules which were the basis for the development of the European Economic Community, now need very careful revision, revision which I am sure will be achieved by the Convention but which needs a further contribution. I would like to quote a statesman who lived two centuries ago in Italy – Count Camillo Benso di Cavour – who said. ‘We have made Italy, now we must make Italians!’ We have certainly made Europe at Copenhagen – now we have to make Europeans. And to make Europeans we need this large-scale information campaign promoting Europe – which our President mentioned this morning – which has been announced many times but will have to be implemented practically in the coming months, for what is happening here must be by common agreement between all our fellow European citizens. Mr President, I would like to wind up the discussion on the Boogerd-Quaak report. This is not about the committee’s political assessment or otherwise; the question is whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been breached. Since freedom of expression is a significant matter, which is very important to us, we would like this matter to be dealt with seriously and for it to continue to be debated. I therefore believe – and I am, of course, speaking on behalf of my group – that the report should be referred back to committee. –  Mr President, we have always had a point of reference in our political action – the ideal of freedom – and there is a condition linked to this ideal of freedom, namely that the ideal of freedom is totally and unequivocally incompatible with the use of violence. Any form of self-determination which is based on or employs violence in any way, even indirectly, must be rejected in the initiatives and positions we adopt. Secondly, we have an ideal of Europe, which is the ideal of subsidiarity. We have never called into question any decision taken by a national parliament, for we recognise that national parliaments act in local contexts which are nothing to do with Europe. Well then, we would like these two fixed reference points of our action to remain our ideals, for otherwise European politics will become a farce, with positions being adopted for Europe which are not part of our tradition. –  Madam President, Commissioner, when developing any strategy, before starting to distort the past and adopt new operating guidelines, one must analyse how much has been achieved. It would now seem to be irrefutable that since 1996 – the year which saw a complete revision of the COM in processed fruit and vegetables – there has not been any form of discussion, even though it had always been intended, on the impact of the COM in that sector, despite the fact that it has reached its third year of application: a period of time that has to be seen as long enough for introducing any reform initiative. The interests of an entire industry are at stake, an industry which employs almost 2 million people in the central southern areas of the Mediterranean countries, universally acknowledged to be among the poorest countries in the European Union. The fruit and vegetable sector is struggling between production quotas and world-wide liberalisation of the markets for want of a policy for research into biotechnological innovations. It is the processing sector which feels the effects of the Marrakech international agreements most of all, even though it accounts for 16% of the value of European Union agricultural production. If the philosophy behind the new COM is to promote the system of associations of producer organisations as an alternative and a complement to the European economic system of large-scale distributors, it would be appropriate for this policy to be bolstered with the financial resources needed to implement the operational programmes, ensuring real financial assistance of at least 4.5% of the marketed production instead of the 3% proposed by the Commission. In order to be able to continue to work, producers are calling for the adoption of legislation which will support the development of the fruit and vegetable sector, not hamper it. . –  Mr President, the Commission’s goals are laudable and certainly comprehensible in a macroeconomic framework, but it is hard to support them. The Commission advocates greater price competitiveness, but also respect for the demands of society, in other words, sustainability and quality. We need to ask ourselves how European farmers are going to manage to meet the demands of society, which is calling for extremely rigid rules on production methods, guarantees, food security and so forth, at a time when they are being forced to reduce prices and keep costs down if they are to continue to be competitive on world markets. The Commission advocates simplification. In my opinion, an analysis of the proposals reveals that these are complex measures which will increase rather than reduce bureaucracy. Just one element of the proposals – the system of rights in respect of decoupling – suffices to make it clear by exactly how much bureaucracy will increase costs for our farms. I hold a pessimistic view – and I sincerely hope I am wrong – which can be broken down into three very simple points. Firstly, the proposal to reduce prices, together with decoupling, will lead to large-scale abandoning of production in many regions and many sectors, which will speed up structural changes and cause an exodus from rural areas. In addition to the impact on farms, decoupling will result in the dismantlingof the agrifood chain,threatening jobs and having a severe impact on farming cooperatives. Secondly, the European market will be strongly influenced by the main world exporters, which, in our view, will certainly not be the developing countries. Thirdly, the only new measures that will be adopted to help farmers implement more stringent rules and safeguard quality will have to be financed by the farmers themselves through cuts in support. In view of this, I do not know how it is possible to endorse reform. –  My dear Mrs Boogerd-Quaak, the good thing about democracy is that people can hold completely different ideas on the same subject. Indeed, I am deeply disappointed and saddened by this report, in both its technical and its political aspects. From a legal and technical point of view, it is almost an abuse of parliamentary procedure: it mentions facts and people often out of context, without any evidence to support the serious allegations it makes; it uses third parties as reliable sources of information without having gone through the proper procedure for assigning the task, according to the Rules of Procedure; it makes critical assessments of countries that have yet to become active members of our institution without any supporting evidence; it does not take adequate account of the assessments made by the competent committees asked to give an opinion; it violates a basic criterion of our legal activity – subsidiarity – particularly regarding legislation; it even censures national parliaments; and I could go on down a long list. It is such a poorly made report that the President of Parliament himself, Pat Cox, in reply to a letter by Mr Podestà, says that, even though they are admissible, certain parts of the text need changing so as to comply fully with parliamentary practice and our Rules of Procedure. In its political aspects, unfortunately, all this is overshadowed by the thirst for a political smear campaign. For me, an MEP who loves politics and believes it to be an irreplaceable tool for building a better society, that is truly the worst part of it. Reports like this and the use of the institutions as an election tool strike at the heart of our institution. This institution has a dignity of its own and a credibility built up over years of hard work, years of adopting consistent and serious positions. Becoming a theatre of national quarrels for electoral purposes deals a mortal blow to the future of this institution and undermines its foundations and its credibility in the eyes of Europe’s citizens. –  Mr President, I share Mrs Grossetête’s regret: the construction of Europe must involve the creation of a legal area, and the diligence we have shown in timetabling such a major report for a Friday morning is certainly not reassuring. One great Italian thinker maintains that a society is commonly perceived as such only insofar as it succeeds in establishing rules for itself which are respected by its members. Certainly, the European Community used to be an institutional model with a remarkable history and the Union is so today; within this Community we have established rules for ourselves – and the Member States and the citizens respect them – but Parliament must not shirk its lawful duty to implement and ensure the implementation of the rules of Community law. Moreover, it must draw fresh strength, fresh nourishment, from its tasks. Although we have come a long way and we are making every effort now, I feel that we still have a long way to go. It is our duty to take on board the fact that there is still a great deal to do in the internal market in terms of standardisation, but also and above all, we must realise that there are a great many gaps in the development of the European legal system. It is good to know that the rate of transposition of Community directives into Member States’ legislation stands at 95%, but this is not enough if the failure to apply Community law correctly is the result of bad practice on the part of administrations rather than the failure to assimilate directives. An effective intervention to deal with the national administrations is therefore, in my opinion, necessary, as the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has stressed. This need is all the greater in that those who are in contact with the law and justice are often unfamiliar with the rules of Community law.  As the report requests, it is therefore appropriate for candidates to the magistracy and forensic science professions to pay particular attention to the rules which we are developing. I tabled some amendments to Mrs Grossetête’s excellent report in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, prompted by the concern that the legal protection of the citizens we represent is given insufficient recognition and enforcement in the individual countries. Petitions to the Commission and the European Parliament in this context should give us not only food for thought, but also cause for concern. The fact that some national courts hardly ever put preliminary questions to the Court of Justice under Article 234 of the Treaty is a further cause for concern, and the representatives of the Commission should instruct their departments to investigate the reasons for this situation.  In short, we must not underestimate the economic and practical difficulties encountered by the citizens in gaining access to Community case law. It may be that we need to adopt a legislative initiative as soon as possible in order to facilitate access to case law in economic terms, perhaps by establishing a support fund. Mr President, the relationship between the free market and the liberal professions is not a straightforward one, as Commissioner Monti has made clear. As you know, Mr Lehne, Mr Zappalà and other Members have been working in my committee for over a year on a directive on professional qualifications, and we are, therefore, very familiar with the specific, exceptional nature of the liberal professions. Members of the liberal professions offer an independent service based on an extremely high level of knowledge on which it is difficult to place a value. For this reason, professional activities are regulated by an ethical code covering relationships between professionals, between professionals and their clients, and between professionals and society as a whole. The behaviour of professionals is governed by an ethical framework covering their precise duties and the requirements of the service determined by professionals themselves, and this ethical framework therefore represents the first step towards regulation in terms of interpretation and application. A sociologist from the United States, Fredson, demonstrates in his work that the system of the professions corresponds to the work ethic, which has to strike a fair balance – and I agree with Commissioner Monti on this – between profit and the implementation of rules, which are the hallmarks of the market and of bureaucracy. This, in itself, is exceptional. Members of the liberal professions need to be granted a special status in order to maintain this delicate and difficult balance, not just in their own interest but also in the interest of society as a whole. Furthermore, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, in Article 5, freedom to choose an occupation, stipulates that everyone has the right to pursue a freely chosen or accepted occupation, and freedom to choose an occupation is different from free enterprise. As stated in the Treaty, Commissioner Monti, the general interest mission of the liberal professions may also justify certain limits to the rules of competition. For this reason, legislation and the ethical regulatory framework may provide for exemptions from competition law in specific cases: in relation to professional fees, which may be mandatory, being set by the state; as regards an integrated approach to exercising the profession; in relation to advertising, where ethical codes may rule out the possibility of professionals passing judgment on each other; as regards membership of social insurance institutions; as regards mandatory membership of pension funds, which is accepted; and as regards exclusive rights for certain regulated professions. When all is said and done, Mr President, the rules that are necessary for each specific profession to ensure that profession's impartiality, competence, integrity and responsibility for funds are not considered to be constraints on competition. The activities of the liberal professions should, therefore, ensure that professionals and the services that they provide help to offer positive solutions to the challenges that we face, thus protecting the general interest of society at large. The standards drawn up by professional associations under their own responsibility, with a view to safeguarding the quality of service provided, guarantee that such rules are observed in accordance with the conventions of professionalism and professional ethics. I accordingly believe – and this reflects Commissioner Monti's statement – that, in this way, and solely by virtue of the delicate balance that we have to strike between profit and ethics, a fair relationship can be established between the free market, competition, regulation and ethics in general. –  Mr President, the Theato report on the Commission’s Green Paper on the protection of Community financial interests and on the creation of a European Public Prosecutor has had a lot of preparation and a long debate. At the beginning, we agreed on this, provided that the office of Prosecutor remained, and still remains limited, precisely, to the financial interests of the Community. During the debate and the assessments made by the Parliamentary committees however, the original measure was in danger of being distorted and taking on a different, dangerous form in the European institutional context. This is why the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, early on, prepared a negative opinion but, subsequently, following intelligent steps by Mr Lehne and explanations from the Chairman, Mrs Theato, it set out a compromise opinion and tried to bring the institution which we want to regulate back towards the original suggestion. Further discussions with Mrs Theato enabled us to reach a united, compromise position, which we hope will be endorsed in the Chamber this morning. With great sensitivity, Mrs Theato took this issue on herself because, in actual fact, the European Union’s legal system does not provide for competences in the field of criminal law and criminal procedural law, or a judiciary endowed with all the degrees of adjudication able to guarantee the full right of defence. In the absence of such conditions, the creation of an independent European Public Prosecutor without any controls would damage, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the already fragile interinstitutional balance between the Union and the States in an area as sensitive as justice: it would therefore be illogical and unjustified. In particular, the creation of such a body would seem truly premature if we consider that we have not yet attained the objectives on judicial cooperation, let alone, where necessary, on the harmonisation of the rules on Member States’ criminal-law issues. It is in the context of Eurojust – this certainly does have a subsidiarity problem and a major problem with coordinating the European States – and in this context alone that we can truly achieve a significant, uniform result which respects the States and at the same time provides the guarantees which the European Union must have. This is how we are going to vote, and we will table these amendments to the Convention, which obviously cannot incorporate a European Prosecutor, an unrestricted super-prosecutor, which would run counter to all the guarantees which nevertheless exist in Europe. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it really is an honour and a pleasure for me to report on the confirmation of the mandate of 162 Members appointed by the ten new Member States as from 1 May 2004 and six Members elected in place of others who had previously stepped down. Through procedural steps too – and I believe that I am interpreting the feeling of the whole House – we are stressing the entry of the representatives of the citizens of the enlarged Union as full Members of this Parliament. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as you all know, it was necessary to deal with the procedure of verifying credentials, and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was required to submit a report to Parliament, pursuant to Rule 7(2) of the Rules of Procedure. This report has been prepared. Therefore, under this Rule, as modified by the other regulations, the Committee on Legal Affairs met yesterday evening. In view of the large number of credentials to be verified and the lack of time, given that we should process them immediately, it was considered appropriate that the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs should present this oral report to Parliament, which can be summarised by announcing that at yesterday’s meeting, the Committee on Legal Affairs verified the credentials of the 168 Members. We examined the customary documents, Mr President, including the declaration on incompatibility and the declaration of financial interests. We unanimously agreed that everything was in order, which means a recommendation can be made to proceed. You have informed us that Mr Kadis is a minister and therefore incompatible with the post of Member of the European Parliament: it is necessary, then, to confirm his mandate from 1 May 2004 until today. Of course, we cannot proceed to verify his successor’s credentials during this sitting. I too take the opportunity of thanking you, Mr President, and the whole of Parliament. Mr President, I feel that the content of this important measure has been clearly and very well explained by Mr Westendorp y Cabeza. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which I have the honour of chairing, has endeavoured, through its opinion, to emphasise the importance of this reconstruction work in the Balkans as a possible way of integrating these areas into Europe as a whole. At the same time, in order to include a specifically cultural angle, not in abstract or generic terms but in terms of solidarity, we have proposed amendments which have found favour in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and which, I feel, contribute to providing, on the one hand, economic, civil, supportive assistance while restoring the civil society of these very unfortunate areas and, on the other, the possibility for cultural and institutional – and I stress the word institutional – support, to give these areas a sense of association with Europe, association in terms of civilisation, in terms of cultural initiatives, as well. The fact that the amendments expressed as an opinion by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport have been accepted and that unanimity has been achieved is, in my opinion, an important factor which this House should note and take into consideration. –  Mr President, a Committee chairman can only feel great satisfaction at seeing colleagues congratulate each other, as Mr Rothley and Mr Lehne have done, on work carried out under his guidance. I am genuinely pleased because we have been working on this project for years. In actual fact, when I had the honour of taking on the chairmanship of the committee, I found areas of strong disagreement which it has only been possible to resolve through debate. As you can see from the speeches, we have worked together harmoniously, never losing sight of two important things: on the one hand, our desire to support the constituent process which is to give shape to a Parliament, its rights, responsibilities and privileges, and, on the other, the fact that the provisions of the Treaty are antiquated and obsolete, as Mr Rothley explained clearly, dating from the sixties, when Parliament was just a consultative assembly. Mr Rothley’s draft, which we are about to adopt, seeks to lay down a new legal framework for the European Parliament and rules governing the exercising of its mandate. I too want to stress that it really is a Statute for a genuine Parliament, which covers not just the financial side of things and, if I may be so bold as to mention it, remuneration, which were fairly minor issues on which the debate in committee had reached an , but the structure and organisation of Parliament’s function, role, characteristics and mandate as well. I would like to be able to quote a major point of a report dating from 1986, which was tabled by Mr Georges Donnès, a great liberal. As far back as 15 years ago, this report stressed that the European Parliament was an institution destined to play a crucial role in the Community’s activity and in the process of producing Community documents, and that there could therefore be no opposition to changes deemed to be necessary for the Community bodies. Even then, it was clear that some bodies would have to undergo a process of change. As regards the possibility of genuinely equal conditions of immunity for all the Members of Parliament, the author of the report wondered whether it would not be possible to define a position of genuine autonomy and immunity for Members of the European Parliament as such, for as long as the current distinction made in Article 10 of the Protocol – which we are now attempting to amend – was preserved. It can be inferred from the report I have just mentioned that such equal treatment is necessary not just to avoid the negative psychological effects of there being first and second class MEPs, but also because it is the fulfilment, a good sixteen years later, of a dream, a plan: making the Parliamentary institutions independent of other powers through the protection of the individual Members. This protection concerns our work and the image we want to give Europe of MEPs who, after many years, first and foremost after this Parliamentary term, through and under your presidency, are establishing a firm point of reference, which, not least, can only benefit enlargement by giving MEPs the effective role they should have. –  Mr President, I have little to add to Mr Lehne’s words because I agree with everything he said. As Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I want to support Mr Barón Crespo because, quite frankly, Mr Rothley’s astute handling of the matter has made it possible to bring to a conclusion an initiative which we had been working on for some time and which has now been satisfactorily completed. We have endorsed a Statute, and a Statute means not just money – remuneration – but it also means something more fundamental for a Parliament and for its Members, in terms, as Mr Haarder said, of constitutional and paraconstitutional issues. In establishing the rights and responsibilities of Members, we have highlighted the issue of Parliament’s autonomy, which, although not absolute because the European process is slightly different, is similar to that of most national parliaments. In establishing the Statute, the members are reinforcing that autonomy. We feel, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that there is an inseverable link between our rights and our responsibilities, between the nature of our work and, of course, the nature of our remuneration too. Mr Haarder has shown that he is on our side. I have taken note, President-in-Office, that the Council has declared its intention to take what Parliament decides into consideration, over and above questions of majority or unanimity. In doing so, it will be giving due consideration to an issue which has been highlighted for the first time by the Committee on Legal Affairs and which will lead to Parliament having a much higher profile, much more autonomy and a much fuller role. We tabled the question, which was endorsed by the President-in-Office, in order to give you an even greater chance of finding a solution. I believe that, in adopting this text, Parliament will be increasing this possibility even more. . –  Mr President, I should like to say right away that the vote taking place in this House today is without precedent. It is a rather exceptional vote because not only is the competence of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy at stake, it is, first and foremost, a question of consistency with the Rules of Procedure – as you indicated a moment ago – and with for the commitments we gave in the debate. There has been a clear pronouncement on the conflict – as you have reminded us – from the Conference of Presidents in favour of the Committee on Legal Affairs, for it is the Conference of Presidents that has to decide on conflicts of competence, as we established with the amendment to Rule 154. Mr Corbett himself made this proposal to the House and the House acknowledged it. Indeed, the Conference of Presidents has the tools to conduct an in-depth analysis, in other words to assess matters case by case, and to take a decision. By voting for the proposal, as I am asking, this House will, above all, be giving the Conference of Presidents the go-ahead to confirm the validity of the Rules of Procedure. There are many factors that point towards giving competence to the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I should like to point out two of them. The Committee on Legal Affairs has been working on the subject since March 2000, when it was given the competence – kindly note – to deal with the Green Paper on legal liability in environmental matters, the consultation document that preceded the proposal for a directive that is the subject of the conflict. Today’s rapporteur on the proposal for a directive is the same person who dealt with the Green Paper, the extremely capable Mr Manders, who, over these years, has acquired a thorough knowledge of the subject. In addition, in accordance with the competence attributed to it, the Committee on Legal Affairs has already discussed the issue and, on 21 May, held a very important hearing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the traditional competence of the Committee on Legal Affairs in matters of environmental liability is derived precisely from Annex VI to our Rules of Procedure, which makes this Committee responsible for matters of civil liability, regardless of the sector in question. This is a proposal for a directive which clearly places civil liability on the polluter’s shoulders, and it is on the basis of these problems, these issues, that I now ask Parliament to vote for the motion and confirm the decision that the Bureau has made. –  Mr President, the idea of including Turkey among the beneficiary countries of the Youth and SOCRATES programmes goes back to 1996. The Commission’s proposal was made on 14 May 1996 and is in line with the objective of extending the large cultural market to Turkey too. This happened despite the obstacles put forward, in particular, the human rights situation in Turkey and the Cyprus issue. Despite these difficulties, and despite the fresh wave of problems we have had recently, this idea led Parliament to extend the decision to include Turkey at its sitting of 25 February and, in the last few days, the Commission has also decided the same thing.  I think that this is a very significant decision. It is significant because, despite Turkey being a country which has had some difficulties in this area – I confess, Mr President, that in the committee we heard about this problem, this difficulty in getting the idea accepted within Europe, the Europe which is so open to culture, as the various speakers have been saying all afternoon in their speeches on the four somewhat interconnected measures. I think that this decision means we can describe Europe in its entirety, as a body of States which regards new countries with an open mentality and great dignity, and offers them wide possibilities to develop in the areas of freedom and culture.  I think that in adopting a measure of this kind, Parliament is giving a warm welcome to Turkish young people who, by renouncing their forefathers’ mistakes, can now look to Europe as a place of great freedom, as a union of States, where culture, its dissemination and solidarity among young people are important, fundamental elements. I would ask for this measure to be adopted unanimously, as it was in the Committee, and despite the delay in the 1999 programmes, for it to be implemented on time in 2000, which is now very near. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in actual fact, I am taking the floor as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market to acknowledge the work done by the vice-chairman, Mr Rothley. This proposal for a directive has been developed with great tenacity and intelligence by Mr Rothley, and I want to give him credit for it here. We are particularly grateful to him because this directive has come about as a result of Article 192, for which I have a particular fondness, as it is an indirect legislative initiative which gives Parliament a leading role and which also confirms the right of initiative of Parliament and its Members. In such a sensitive industry, this leads to more effective European citizenship because, as Mr Rothley has said, it makes it easier to take out a short-term policy for a temporary stay in another Member State and to get short-term insurance for a vehicle purchased outside the owner’s Member State of residence. As a result, it will be simpler to purchase a car in any country in the Union where the best terms are available. I think this will be of interest to a great many European citizens, because of that single insurance market that Mr Bolkestein was talking about and which is thus established, and it will be a valuable and useful development for the European Community as a whole. The most sensitive part of the report – it has already been underlined, but I should like to reiterate it – concerns the higher levels of cover laid down by the Member States. The Commission had set a sum of EUR 1 million per victim in cases of personal injury and EUR 500 000 per accident for damage to property. We believe EUR 5 million per accident for personal injury and EUR 2 million for property damage would be more appropriate and flexible and could be a compromise position. I must formally give Mr Rothley the credit for this compromise, because he has taken into account the various situations that exist in the insurance market, once again with a view to achieving a single insurance market. He has also addressed the issue of legal costs. It was not appropriate at this stage, however, to extend insurance cover to injuries sustained by pedestrians and cyclists as a result of accidents in which they were involved, because this is an even more sensitive area and I think it may need to be regulated by a specific measure. If, as Mr Bolkestein has recognised, Parliament and the Commission have worked well and usefully together, I hope that the Council and the Commission will take our amendments to heart and that such an important directive as this will be able to help to bring the citizens of Europe closer together in common citizenship. I very much hope this will happen, because the compromise that has been reached is an excellent balance, which I hope the Commission will take into account. Mr President, I will take as a starting point the final words of the rapporteur, Mr Medina Ortega, who quite rightly said that the proposal under discussion and the whole of his report is not against the Commission but, if anything, seeks to harmonise – and I believe that, on this occasion, this term is more apposite than ever before – and regulate better law-making. As the coordinator of the parliamentary committee that reached an agreement on simplification of legislation (this interinstitutional agreement), I must say something about the importance of the debate that went on in my committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the report by Mr Medina Ortega. This debate began before we worked on the interinstitutional agreement and continued afterwards. The report which we are talking about was, therefore, a prerequisite for, and a consequence of, this interinstitutional agreement, which, had it been followed – please confirm this to me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen – by the European Constitution, we would, I believe, have had a parliamentary term characterised by this strong connection and this desire to take into account the three institutions (Commission, Council and Parliament) around which Europe really revolves: the European Community. I agree that the interinstitutional agreement is of course not everything: an agreement that prepares for a completely different role for Parliament, it is an agreement that must move forward. This is why, quite rightly, the rapporteur states that, in improving community legislation, it is necessary to go beyond the interinstitutional agreement. The interinstitutional agreement is, therefore, a condition, above all of the right to be consulted automatically – as Mr Medina Ortega rightly states in his report – in the areas of coregulation and self-regulation, that is to say a condition of Parliament’s right to be immediately informed by the Commission and to once and for all suspend the application of any voluntary agreement that it has not accepted. I believe that these are the two points that give shape to this report and on which there could be a further agreement in the next parliamentary term, in order to lay the foundations for a balanced relationship between the three institutions that represent Europe. Mr President, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, allow me to say that never before have I been as proud as I am this evening to be chairman of a committee which has impartially given an extremely thorough opinion and detailed suggestions to the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. It did so having in-depth knowledge, being totally objective, without any disagreement and in an extremely rigorous way, calling for a commitment to diversification of ownership and control of telecommunications and television broadcasting, calling for free competition, calling for the principle of pluralism to also be observed by broadcasters, and stressing the need for media pluralism because this is a fundamental right. We therefore drafted a series of assessments and put forward amendments to be incorporated, which the Committee on Freedoms did not take into consideration at all. We discussed matters impartially yet a majority in the Committee on Freedoms want to be obstructionist – that really is obstructionism –and somehow consider just the political aspect of the situation. Thus they try to foist onto Italy a situation and an assessment that it does not deserve, since we must not let Italy as a whole be given a negative assessment. We have thus arrived at a directive and a solution which Parliament certainly cannot be proud of. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add my voice to the unanimous acclaim of this directive as important and fundamental – maybe the most important directive achieved in the current legislature. Therefore, in my capacity as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I would like to stress the great balance achieved by Mr Manders in tabling appropriate amendments on a matter in which it is easy to see that exaggeration and underestimation are equally unhelpful. The directive is complex and the – positive or negative – impact on the environment and the production system as a whole depends precisely on whether we strike the right balance. A directive which went beyond what is sensible would be in danger, in practical terms, of imposing heavy, unbearable obligations and costs on companies, possibly even driving them to relocate to other countries where these rules are not in force - and they would be doing so reluctantly - so that they can compete on the international market. I, too, would stress the fact that the – not trivial, but important – ‘polluter pays’ principle, by which those who cause damage have to repair the damaged goods, is essential in a society which seeks to guarantee sufficient quality of life in the future too. It is also important to establish what is covered by the protection and, therefore, the ensuing liability: who is liable, for how long and to what extent. I believe that the Council’s common position is, in itself, a useful contribution in this sense, and we must support it. Thus, the principle of ‘discernment and balance’ – which I am repeatedly stressing and which has been a constant theme running through our debate – has led us to identify protected sites, define responsibilities and provide for exclusion from liability for those who have observed legal authorisations and rules. I will confine myself to adding to the proposals of the Committee on Legal Affairs, together with Mrs Niebler – the shadow rapporteur who really has done an excellent job, as was clear from her speech yesterday too – an amendment which I feel to be particularly important, seeking to maker clearer the definition of operator, which, as the text is currently worded, does not make it possible to exclude banks and other financial institutions involved from liability for environmental damage caused by financial operators. As I understand it, the Commission does not agree on this point, which I would like to see explored in greater depth, so as to give greater consideration to whether it is sensible to produce a definition which does not cover all possible eventualities and which might, in actual fact, lead to a claim for damages being made to a financial intermediary. This would appear to be a valid request and I do, indeed, recommend that the House support the directive. In conclusion, I believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs’ position has been linked to a common position; I hope that it will receive broad consensus in the Chamber in the vote. –  Mr President, this resolution is Parliament’s first legislative initiative in cultural matters based on Article 192 of the Treaty and is distinguished from the other resolutions approved by Parliament in the field of culture not only in its content but also in its procedure, certainly the most authoritative yet allowed under the Treaty. The resolution has come at a delicate time for the European Union, on the eve of major institutional reforms; it is therefore seen as an indication and a contribution from Parliament to the debate on the future of Europe. If all this is true, you will of course allow me, Mr President, sincerely, in my capacity as committee Chairman, to congratulate the rapporteur in advance this evening – something that we generally do as a matter of course when we vote – because I really believe this is a step forward, a major revolution that Parliament is on the point of making. Actually, the lack of coordination at the level of cultural programmes, which the rapporteur has highlighted, is in my mind the most important fact in being able to make Europe grow and, as Mr Ruffolo has said, culture has until now had a much lesser role than the economy. With the Maastricht Treaty conditions improved but it remained marginal; then in Nice it was held paralysed in the bonds of unanimity. All that shows how Europe can be made, Commissioner, not just through the economy, but through a major cultural initiative, of which Parliament should take full note. Precisely because this resolution is wanted and has, I believe, been passionately discussed by the committee until they reached unanimity – wanted by the rapporteur and discussed and wanted by the committee as a whole – I believe it really shows a difference, a diversity, a new reason for this Parliament, as part of a strategy that must, at a cultural level, lead us to unity in the cultural diversity that this great Europe has, in order for there to be a future in a real strategy over the coming years. – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to talk about such sensitive issues when there is so little time available but I would like to confirm that, contrary to what many speakers have said, we have increased protection following 11 September and drawn up a raft of measures which include those we are debating this evening. However, last year, we instituted Eurojust and we have already delivered one major opinion, as has been mentioned, to the effect that Eurojust should harmonisejudicial cooperation within Europe. Today, we are taking a large step forward. We are taking a quantum leap towards laying the foundations for the institution of a European public prosecutor in the future, and I therefore feel that the area of justice in which all this is taking place is gaining in significance, and it is not an area of repression, Mr Vitorino, but an area of freedom. I am sure you have drawn inspiration from these principles. I believe that this is an issue of primary importance on which we are about to deliver an opinion and which we feel will certainly open up a whole world of cooperation and solidarity in this area. There are clearly specific problems and they clearly concern the arrest warrant, which merits close reflection. Only Mr Di Lello could be so superficial and irresponsible as to cast such hasty aspersions on the Italian government. I do not feel this is fair. The legal institutions have their own procedures,and we are fine-tuning this European procedural law, this European area, but it is clear that we must proceed with great caution and not draw up a list of offences, for we would never finish adding to it, and any list of offences will clearly never be comprehensive. We must realise that transnational crimes do exist, that the crime of international terrorism does exist, Madam President, and that it is a sensitive, significant and tragic issue in today’s society. All we have to do, and it must be our priority, to combat it is, of course, to coordinate the activities. Italian procedural law, for example, has its own peculiarities, and we hope that there will be reasoned, active unanimity within the Council. Mr President, I speak as the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has concerned itself with this problem of its own accord, as Mrs Gröner knows. We have issued a favourable opinion, though we have highlighted certain points, because the objective of gender equality, as laid down in the Treaty and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, is an important objective that Parliament does well to debate. Mainstreaming equality, as Mrs Gröner has said, means intervening in the fields of decision-making, political and administrative processes, encouraging the making of decisions that take into account the goals we must achieve. Therefore, the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities proposes that Parliament should adopt a plan of action alongside measures which, of course, are provided for in the legislation and are aimed at reaching the objectives we wish to achieve. Mr President, this is a process which has ramifications in our social structures and in the institutions and which, naturally, must see effective equality as the conquest of substantive equality of fundamental rights and duties in an open, globalised society that wants to give due importance to all cultural expressions. I believe expressions of equality have a profoundly cultural content. I think it is fundamental that there should be a high-level policy group to restore the gender balance in Parliament’s governing bodies and in Parliament as a whole, especially in view of enlargement, which must take into account the goals we wish to achieve. Therefore, the opinion that the Committee on Legal Affairs has drawn up and which I want to convey to this House, here this evening, points out that we have referred to the 2002 Lalumière report, approved by the Bureau. That report not only provides for the appointment of a higher percentage of women at A1 and A3 levels in the next few years, but it also states that, in terms of career development, the principle of priority should be applied systematically. This principle, however, has been considered by the Committee on Legal Affairs to be in some ways a little excessive, going rather beyond the goals we want to achieve, because it is at variance with the case-law – which I believe is quite enlightened – of the Court, which naturally considers that it is against national rules to automatically give priority where candidates of different sexes short-listed for promotion are equally qualified. Such a priority should, of course, be seriously taken into account initially in the context of competitions for posts, but it must not constrain the actual outcome in practice. In other words, giving absolute and unconditional priority to the under-represented gender for appointment or promotion is, according to the Court’s ruling, not only going beyond the objective of promoting equal opportunities but also replacing this objective with an outcome of equal representation, which can only be achieved if this objective is fulfilled. I believe, therefore, that this philosophy of the Court and this fundamental principle, which, with some moderation, brings a substantive balance to decision-making, should be adopted as appropriate instruments that Parliament must adopt in order to achieve a more mature equality, which would be a victory in the process of social and cultural life. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like the House to know how pleased I am that the Committee which I have the honour of chairing has unanimously, and rightly so, adopted the detailed, comprehensive report of the rapporteur, Mr Vander Taelen. Without going back over aspects which have already been debated, I would point out here that the rapporteur has provided comprehensive proof, as I said before, that both a cultural problem and an organisational problem exist. The problems are related. I feel that the measure tabled by the committee and the decision the House makes tomorrow are so important as to warrant due reflection from the Commissioner and, indeed, a number of proposals and initiatives as well. As we have said before and will continue to say, there needs to be a substantial cultural element in the integration of Europe, and films play a major, fundamental role in both informing people about cultural diversities and providing authenticity, allowing the message of cinema to be disseminated in all the States. There is a need for more than just organisation. That is important and, in my opinion, the report certainly raises basic issues which will lead us to greater organisation and investment than in the past. What Mrs Sanders-ten Holte said just now is important. If European film production increases, the number of distribution channels will have to increase too. That is why the problems are related, and it is therefore our task, our responsibility, the responsibility of Parliament, especially, and of the Commission, in particular, and the Council, to achieve this. There is nothing we can do to change the current structure of the industry. When we debate television without frontiers, then we will be able to establish rights and clear guidelines; we will be able to require television companies to distribute, promote and commission European films, but it is imperative that, in cultural terms, we realise that we must make it quite clear thatall the European countries must be able to benefit from films. Mr President, I believe that when substantial problems exist, as in the case of the Statute, we simply need to be patient because, in the end reason will prevail, awareness will emerge and everyone will act responsibly for a moment. Personally, I have to say that, in the course of my long political career, this is one of the few times when I really must express my satisfaction in plain, non-rhetorical terms. I cannot refrain from doing so and I must thank you, Mr President; with this interinstitutional agreement and this Statute, you have, discreetly and without fuss, made a significant contribution to the cause of Parliament. I believe that, if this unanimity we see really does bring results, this will be remembered as an important day. Under your guidance, Mr Rothley and I have stubbornly – I would even say pig-headedly – insisted on discussing this issue and putting forward arguments that have prevailed in the end. I believe that the Italian Presidency must take the credit, even though the Constitution has not seen the light of day – if Mr Antonione will allow me to say so, for this point which really is the most relevant. Ladies and gentlemen, we could have achieved a result even before 9 December, but this was not fully understood when I convened the committee, on 9/10 December, to force the Council to face up to its responsibilities. We still have time, though, and I believe that, if we are to attribute a fundamental significance to the date of 15 January, we must act now. Personally, I see no problem, if you agree Mr President with convening the committee now for 12 January, in that it would be, Mr Antonione, a clear, transparent and specific act by Parliament. This is the first time I have been in the European Parliament in this legislative period, but I have studied this issue throughout the long process. The first part gives autonomy, guarantees, visibility, transparency and unanimity to the rules governing the Members of the European Parliament and to Parliament as a whole. This deals with the amending of primary law. The second part is the necessary organisational section, where we have achieved a balance by way of a compromise that I think does credit to Parliament. It is true that small sacrifices have been made, but the issue now looks fairly clear and acceptable. If, as Mr Rothley has said, the words of the Italian Presidency are now clear, if the Presidency has spoken on behalf of all Member States and all the governments, I think that, on 15 January, after the prior meeting of the committee on 12 January, this major problem can genuinely be resolved and Parliament will have taken a great leap forwards. .  Mr President, I would like to make two points, one of a moral nature and one of a legal nature, in this debate on a very sensitive issue, and link the two questions together. Embryos are human beings in their own right: this is now a certainty, and it is a certainty that we want to stress with all our might. The Nice Charter of Fundamental Rights recognises the dignity of these rights – physical and psychological integrity – and there is therefore a moral obligation to protect embryos as human beings, irrespective of how they have been created. It therefore follows that experimentation is only justified when carried out in the interests of the individual or embryos in question, and there are no justifications or extenuating circumstances, which could serve to balance out the interests of the individual, the fundamental rights of the individual, and the interests of society. The issue goes beyond this kind of balancing out process because the protection of inalienable and fundamental rights certainly takes precedence. Thus, destructive experimentation is out of the question and, consequently, public funding is out of the question for experimentation which only endorses the line that embryos are a set of cells with no intrinsic value, with no bioethical value as human life. Stem cells, on the other hand, can be removed, as we have heard, from the umbilical chord or from spontaneously aborted foetuses of adult cells for use in the treatment of serious illnesses. Thus, moral responsibility dictates that we opt for this kind of investigation, these types of treatment. There are, however, more than just moral arguments; these moral arguments give rise to legal arguments, which the committee of which I have the honour of being chairman has pointed out and brought to Parliament’s attention. The Union respects national identity, and so I am pleased to hear the rapporteur say that we are not going to diminish Member States’ legislation or cultural diversity. Community law takes precedence over internal law and, therefore, over the basic law of the Member States. Community law, despite the fact that it takes precedence in other sectors, cannot exist in all areas of general law because there is a limit, as the Constitutional Courts – of Italy, Germany and many other countries – have said repeatedly, for fundamental rights must be respected and take precedence. Therefore, there is clearly no question of blanket Community funding – and we focused on this point in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I am speaking in this Chamber today in support of this line. – Mr President, I am speaking without having heard the debate because I had a prior engagement in the Bureau. Having steered the work of the committee for so long, I can say that the matter was subjected to detailed discussion and analysed in depth and underwent the procedure duly required for such an important provision, a provision that is one of the most important currently under Parliament’s scrutiny. We started with a hearing that lasted a whole day and brought to our attention problems dealt with in depth by the rapporteur and other members of the committee – Mr Zappalà, Mr Lehne and others whom I thank – and, as a result of various debates and speeches, we reached today’s conclusion. We have a major ambition: we want to lay down regulations governing the intellectual professions. I believe that we are effectively opening up Europe to the right of citizenship and cultural organisation so that Europe can be achieved by means not just of the single currency and all the measures we are advancing, but above all by making citizens aware of the interconnectedness of the intellectual professions: the possibility of carrying out professional activities at the highest level within the various Member States and within various European organisations. Mr Zappalà has pushed this directive forward by finding a balance which, it must be said, differs from that of the Commission, a balance more in keeping with the demands of the professional world and of citizens, at the heart of which lies above all the quality of information. We need to ensure that the professions are qualified to the highest standards so that, within the Member States, professional persons are accepted on the basis of the qualifications they possess. I believe that, in doing this, we are making a major contribution to Europe and providing a service for its citizens. I also believe that communications between different European countries is determined at this level: the intellectual professions have been throughout history – not just in Italy but in all countries – a major reference point in relation to a country’s standing. Finally, I believe that the professions, once they come under a single definition within Europe, are capable of making a contribution that can be surpassed only by the Constitution, once it is ratified. Nevertheless, this is an important contribution to the Constitution and to European citizenship. –  Madam President, whoever has the honour, like myself, to chair the Committee on Culture, cannot fail to agree with the comments from various Members and can but congratulate the rapporteur, and Commissioner Reding, with whom he worked and who, even during the conciliation process, had difficult moments and opposed the Council – you have heard this said by everyone. I have noticed how the principle of a necessary culture at European organisational level has been firmly asserted, but there are few opportunities to address all the requests that the European States will make.  I shall simply stress my own personal complaint because, in the end, we did not manage to adopt a review clause. However, Mrs Reding was certainly receptive and farsighted, and personally undertook to review the issue and carry out a comprehensive assessment within a few years, and therefore to change the situation.  The cultural programmes launched in years past – Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael – are being replaced by a single programme, Culture 2000, where – and I must stress this here very forcefully – the rapporteur censures a position which should give the European Parliament cause for reflection – as someone said this afternoon – but which still underlines the huge importance of being part of a vast community where cultural interpretation is a democratic factor. This is not rhetoric, but the new embodiment of a modern liberalism which unites the European States and constitutes a turning point for the European Parliament and the Commission.  We agree with this approach and despite the lack of funds, this evening’s result will serve to greatly boost this strategy and this opportunity for Europe, which will then give rise toan economic factor and a growth factor; culture then, and an institutional aspect, the basis for structuring a vast community, a prerequisite for economic growth, and not the complete opposite, as Europe, in its cultural habits, has perhaps been used to viewing things in the past. Man and culture are priorities, and culture can result in economic growth. Let us contemplate this result, derive satisfaction from it and grant ourselves a licence to fully embrace this worthwhile strategy. –  Mr President, I would start by saying that in a letter of 6 July 1999 the Council consulted Parliament pursuant to Article 157, on the proposal for a Council Decision concerning Community participation in the European Audiovisual Observatory. At the sitting of 23 July, the President of Parliament proposed that the Committee, chaired by myself, should examine the subject, and in its meeting of 27 July, the Committee on Culture and Youth appointed me rapporteur. During the meetings of 22 September and 11 and 12 October, the Committee considered the proposal and the draft report, which it adopted unanimously.  The European Audiovisual Observatory, Mr President, is a very important public service body, which aims to gather and disseminate information on the audiovisual industry: cinema, television, video etc. It was set up under the aegis of Audiovisual Eureka in October 1989 and operates within the framework of a partial agreement which was obtained in the Council of Europe. As a whole, its members include at least 34 European States and the Commission of the European Union. With regard to its network of partners, correspondents and various organisms, its mission cannot be confused – this is an important and fundamental fact, which the Committee discussed at length – with Eurostat’s mission and its tasks in this sector. They are two different things. While the Community body aims for a harmonised, systematic collection of general statistics from various States, with the public and administrations as its main clients, who therefore provide it with work, the observatory has more specific and focused objectives, according to the market and the statistical requirements of firms and professionals. Moreover, its sphere of competence is broader: it extends into the legal sector, to specialist information, and its mandate, which covers the 34 States – and I stress this once again – is broader than that of Eurostat. The two institutions must not be too far opposed, or rather, they must not and cannot be opposed as they are in regular contact, have also established their  and have come to an agreement on the way their activities are to be carried out. On the other hand, the Court of Justice’s ruling of 12 May 1998 concerning the legal bases called for a better defined framework with respect to the past because of the previous confusion.  The new line concerns the preparatory measures of the audiovisual sector. It does not refer to former Article 130(3) regarding industrial development and the decisions on the basis of which a Eureka programme was founded for the audiovisual sector. A category seeking to create an infrastructure of statistical information has been envisaged. This should allow payment of the Community’s contribution to the budget of the European Observatory of Strasbourg for 1999, that is for the current year. The delay has certainly hindered and is still hindering the functioning of the institution. And I think – and moreover, this is the opinion of the entire Committee – that its functioning is important and fundamental for the European Commission and for the 34 Member States which are members and which continue to be active members in the observatory. On the other hand, I believe we will have the chance to cooperate on these issues with the excellent Commissioner, Mrs Reding, and I take this opportunity to greet her and thank her for her willingness on the matter.  Mr President, having the honour to chair the Committee on Culture, naturally I also represent its position. As I said at the beginning, the final vote was unanimous and of the three amendments, two were adopted unanimously and one was adopted by a majority. On a personal note, however, I would like to say that I did not agree with the third amendment, in the sense that the decision we are about to adopt and that the Commission has already brought forward should have expired in the original text on the last day of the last month of the fifth year, while the Commission has shortened the time period to three years. I repeat that, personally, I have some doubts because I think that we are making a distinction between Eurostat and the observatory which will maybe not lead to cooperation, although that has been decided on recently. On the other hand, the justified concern which was worrying Mr Perry – he is a signatory of the amendment – that over the next few years Parliament would have to control the expenditure and budget of the observatory, will still be valid when we change the five year period, that is when we give the observatory the chance to plan the valuable functions that it has in a broader and more organised way. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the interinstitutional agreement which we are talking about is the result of the negotiations within the high-level working party formed by representatives of Parliament, the Commission and the Council Presidency. Together with Mr Swoboda, Mr Clegg and Mrs Frassoni, I feel that we must thank the High Level Technical Group which helped us in our work, but I would, of course, also like to mention the contribution made by the politicians to the outcome achieved: an agreement which – although, as Mrs Frassoni said just now, it certainly fails to satisfy everybody in Parliament – I believe is an extremely important compromise, which we must acknowledge this evening in this House. We worked on the basis of the mandate given to us by the Conference of Presidents on 4 July, and I believe I can say that we adhered firmly to this brief and to this will, which, together with the President of the European Parliament, we often witnessed in individual and delegation meetings. The objectives set down in the mandate concerned adequate guarantees regarding Parliament’s rights as a legislative authority, complete transparency during the legislative procedure and the choice of innovative solutions conducive to more effective and responsible law-making. In short, Parliament’s aim was to enhance democratic legitimacy and the quality of Community legislation, which is something I believe we all want. Alongside the negotiations, the European Commission adopted a series of documents on simplifying and improving legislation, on which the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market expressed its opinion by adopting Mr Medina Ortega’s report, which you have just heard presented. The draft interinstitutional agreement reasonably fulfils both the Conference of Presidents’ mandate and the guidelines that are contained in Mr Ortega’s report. Furthermore, although we used the Treaty as a reference – our reference was, of course, the Treaty – the agreement is in line with the draft Constitutional Treaty that was adopted by the Convention and which is being debated in the IGC. I would like to mention briefly that we have resolved some extremely important issues: the legislative planning, coordination of legislative work between the institutions; the Council informing Parliament on both the annual and the multiannual draft strategic programme; the presence of the Council in committees – in committees as well as in the House, of course – which I feel is important for the exchange of views necessary for Parliament’s work, the Commission commits to participate regularly in the work of the committees, preferably at ministerial level, but, in any case, at the highest level appropriate and at an accountable level. As regards transparency, there is confirmation of the importance of informing the public about the progress of legislative work, as the Convention recognised to some extent; the choice of form for legislative acts, which the Convention also includes in the proportionality principle, while the monopoly of the right of initiative conferred on the Commission – I want to make this clear to Parliament – cannot give it exclusive responsibility for the choice of form for a legislative act. Article 12 lays down that the Commission must take into account recommendations from the other institutions; with regard to co-regulation, on the most sensitive issue of call-back – to which Mrs Frassoni attaches great importance – I would point out that Parliament has already adopted the Wallis report to this end; I believe that we have made great progress in this area, as well as in terms of self-regulation, control and giving economic operators and the social partners the possibility of adopting guidelines in this field; the issue of comitology, impact assessment, timeframes for implementation and transposal. I cannot dwell on this any further but I would like to say, in conclusion, that we made sure that the agreement did not jeopardise the future role of Parliament, as Mr Cox has told us at each stage. Not only have we not compromised Parliament’s role, but I believe that we have enhanced the European Parliament – and this is an important fact that remains in this term of office – as a legislative body in the interinstitutional balance of powers and in the interinstitutional agreement. –  Mr President, the MEDIA programmes are designed to strengthen European industry and the audiovisual content through measures providing financial support to specific sectors such as development, the preparation stage of projects, the distribution and marketing of audiovisual works, the promotion of European works and programmes with the aim of facilitating access to European and international markets, and training aimed at improving occupational preparation. The adoption of the Media Plus and Training programmes is important; the autonomous role of the promotion sector is important; the significant role of distribution is important for an increasingly wide distribution of works; the complementarity between Media Plus and Media Training should be increased as much as possible. The Commission should take Parliament's contribution to heart and accept all the amendments – both those to the training part, which is subject to codecision, and those to the development, distribution and promotion part, which is merely subject to the consultation procedure and which, moreover, receives the greatest share of the budget. The amendments are the result of some very clever work, Mrs Hyeronymi, and, as Chairman, I would like to compliment you and reiterate that you have won the unanimous support of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media, Education and Sport and the committees which expressed opinions. The latter Committees – the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy – have done something significant in approving the proposal to change the legal basis of Media Plus, inserting Article 157 (industry) and Article 151 (culture) in order to give equal value to industry and the audiovisual sector. The Commission has already indicated through press agencies that it opposes this amendment. I am sorry but we are not satisfied with the response and we would have preferred to have heard the Commission's position in this debate and not through press statements. In any case, we call for an increase in the budget and we hope that Parliament and the Commission will be able to achieve unanimity and an agreement on this issue as well. –  Mr President, I feel I must comment on the report by Mr Bösch on the protection of the Communities’ financial interests and the fight against fraud. The report has a coherence of its own, it has some qualities, and a fair evaluation has already been made of it this evening in this debate. In this document, however, the chapter on ‘Strengthening the criminal law dimension’ – from paragraph 58 to paragraph 65 – interferes, as has already been pointed out, with the institution of the European Prosecutor, on which the Committee on Legal Affairs – which I have the honour to chair – gave an unfavourable opinion and then it found points of compromise with the Theato report, which we must look into more carefully. This is certainly solid ground that we should occupy, but, I repeat, we must find a balance. This proposal, which in some way also interferes with the provision to be discussed at the end of March during the Brussels mini-session, does not even, I think, rationalise the legislative system. The legislative simplification we are talking about is a proposal that, in practice, rather puts the cart before the horse, and we are forced to table some amendments to it. In effect, the proposal again creates a European Prosecutor with competence to follow up judgments and crimes that harm the Community’s financial interests. In truth, it is quite unacceptable to the Committee on Legal Affairs because the legal order of the European Union provides neither competences in matters of criminal procedural law nor a judiciary at all levels of jurisdiction that could ensure a full right to defence. In the absence of such a context, the aggregation of a European Public Prosecutor is illogical and unjustified, and I must emphasise this and also tell the Commissioner, who has rather hastily dismissed the problem. We must think about this carefully, because the creation of such a body is premature, if one considers that the objectives of judicial cooperation – which prevails here – have not been achieved and that it is necessary to harmonise the rules on criminal matters in Member State institutions. One cannot simply attribute criminal law competence to the Court of Justice: the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance were set up for other purposes and, anyway, it is not necessary to create a European Prosecutor when we just have to strengthen judicial cooperation, taking inspiration from the principle of subsidiarity, which is precisely the criterion on which we must base our action. We must therefore continue to enhance the competences of Eurojust, and to strengthen and coordinate these powers at a European level. The amendments tabled are therefore to clarify matters; all the rest of the report can go ahead. We are very afraid that, with the single exception of Italy, where the judicial order is being remodelled at this very moment, in no other country in Europe do prosecutors enjoy the status and powers that we want to give to the European Prosecutor, which is at the root of the alarm at the level of legal consistency and the European legal area. These are misgivings we are going to voice regarding the European Public Prosecutor, but since the issue has in effect come up surreptitiously in this measure, we must formulate them right now in this Parliament and remedy them through the amendments. –  Mr President, the autonomy and independence of the European Parliament to which the Members are called are two of the principles on which the democratic legitimacy of the European Union system is based. They must therefore be preserved – and it is our duty to do this – from the attempts coming from a number of quarters to place conditions upon Parliament’s exercising of its functions. In the institutions of absolute immunity and immunity laid down by the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities, the European Parliament has the – albeit limited – tools to defend itself against attacks on its independence or autonomy by other public or private authorities. This is not so in the case of the Members of the European Parliament elected in Italy. Indeed, very often, the judicial authorities do not take into account the absolute immunity of the Member in question – the European Parliament must understand that – in carrying out the processes laid down in Article 68(2) of the Constitution, particularly where the – albeit indirect – interception of telephone communications is concerned. There is controversy in Italy at this very time regarding the indirect interception of telephone communications carried out in contempt of the principle of this guarantee. It is apparent that interchanges are taking place which are actually sometimes quite unpleasant between the parliament and certain judges, who are inevitably and, at times, unconsciously, biased. They use the independence and lack of institutional accountability they enjoy as a shield for what are, in fact, political actions. The judges themselves, moreover, are raising this issuein conventions and seminars and even in official debates. In the face of this Italian idiosyncrasy, the European Parliament must defend its independence resolutely, particularly when its Members are accused of offences because of opinions they have expressed in the course of their duties. In other words, the European Parliament must be able to intervene to confirm cases of absolute immunity and immunity at the request of the accused Member too, provided, of course, that the requisite conditions and assumptions are fulfilled, as happens in the Italian Parliament. Mr MacCormick and Mr Duff’s reports lay down procedures for making these guarantees effective. I will end by thanking both Mr MacCormick and Mr Duff, who, in the report on the adoption of the Members’ Statute, have endorsed our work on it, which I hope will be adopted by the House without delay. The MacCormick report, as adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, has already adopted a position on some of the cases mentioned and feels that the cases of the Members or former Members of Parliament, Mr Marras, Mr Speroni and Mr Dell’Utri, are,  and in this case, covered by absolute immunity. In any event, the competent judge – the Italian judge, that is – must send Parliament the necessary documentation and establish whether the case in question fulfils the conditions for absolute immunity laid down in Article 9 of the Protocol. On behalf of the PPE-DE Group, I can only fully support this approach and recommend that Mr MacCormick and Mr Duff’s reports be adopted without any amendment. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their valuable work. .  Mr President, I have taken the floor to stress the importance of this Green Paper – for I feel it is my duty to do so – and, therefore, to congratulate Commissioner Vitorino on the contribution he has made with this Green Paper to the building of an area of freedom and justice. I would also like to thank Mr Hernández Mollar for incorporating the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which was the fruit of extensive, in-depth analysis, extensive debate and great understanding of the issue. He reiterated just now that we need to call strongly for criminal procedure to provide substantial criminal , because that is the way to be able to provide safeguards, to achieve, indeed, what we see as a minimum level of reliability and minimum safeguards. The intention of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market in producing this opinion was to stress and emphasise the need to protect the freedom of defendants. We are aware that the institutions describe themselves in these terms, that legal civilisation, the rule of law, prevails, and these safeguards are essential to and representative of a fair trial, which is the subject of so much discussion and, I believe, must be our ultimate goal as regards procedure. The Green Paper represents a change of course, Commissioner Vitorino, a radical change of course from tendencies which are not quite democratic, giving precedence to powers of investigation and investigation alone, also in a supranational form. The European Prosecutor for criminal protection against fraud is an example of this point, which I have already made on other occasions in this Chamber and in other debates. All the provisions laid down have already been mentioned, but the right to immediate defence, the right to assistance, the language guarantee and other similar matters form the essential elements of this measure, and I would stress them once again. What we must emphasise are not just cooperation and coordination between the Member States but definitive recognition of final criminal decisions, and the Committee on Legal Affairs is working to this end. To sum up, Mr President, we must ensure that the level of protection of rights provided is higher rather than lower. To this end, we must take into account the safeguards provided by some Member States and ensure that Europe as a whole focuses its approach on that dimension and those rights. The Europe of rights and freedoms demands it. –  Mr President, Commissioner, this debate, which is a repeat of other, previous debates would, on the surface, appear superfluous and outdated. A debate on the death penalty is a debate which harks back to the development of a civilised legal system, which is something Europe already has. And yet it is topical and important in terms of world affairs. It is important for the Parliament of Europe – of Western Europe – to treat it as such since two traditions have evolved in Europe over the millennium: one which derives from the Roman tradition which influenced the European legal culture, particularly that of Italy and Germany, and recently paved the way for the new rights to freedoms, and then the tradition of Common Law, which is a basic part of the British Bill of Rights. Despite certain very tragic events which have taken place in Europe, despite the fact that there have been fascist and communist cultures that have trampled underfoot rights to freedoms and the rights of individuals, I feel it noteworthy that agreement has been reached time and time again in this Parliament in discussing the death penalty and firmly condemning it in any form whatsoever. In my opinion, the Charter of Fundamental Rights which is under discussion, for which Nice will be a decisive moment, is based on this value, the value of the human person, the value of the right to freedom. We Italians are of the tradition of Cesare Beccaria, as has already been said, but Beccaria was a man who belonged to Europe, who rejected mediaeval, obscurantist law in its entirety in favour of modern law, in favour of a legal system which does not make us wolves to our fellow men but, by means of peaceful civil coexistence, guarantees freedoms. Capital punishment is always incompatible with peace in civil coexistence and we must find the courage to declare that accepting a moratorium – although that would be great step forward – is not enough to make a country genuinely democratic: to achieve true democracy it must abolish the death penalty. And so it is true: a humanitarian undertaking is not sufficient. We need to shout it from the rooftops that the death penalty is against the law. Madam President, I feel that it is my duty to speak about an issue that regards the dramatic legal event in Italy affecting the current life senator, Giulio Andreotti. He is a public figure who is well known at European level, a figure who is at the forefront of Community affairs. I waited for the Court of Cassation’s verdict before speaking on this issue. Even more urgently, I waited for the reasons given a few days ago by the Court of Cassation, in which it not only acquitted senator Andreotti of a torment which had lasted years and of preposterous accusations of no less than murder, but, in the reasons that I have just mentioned, it criticised the absurd action taken by the Court of Appeal in condemning him: personal theories which could not be backed by any evidence. I therefore believe that the ordeal of this man, a life senator, one of the public figures to have made a significant contribution to the development of democracy in the country and one of the fathers of Europe, should be firmly highlighted, and that it must be made clear that a part of the Italian justice system, which is clearly ineffectual if not subversive, enforced this situation which has disturbed both Italy and Europe for 10 years. I therefore urge you, Madam President, and I am sure that I am not just interpreting the will of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian democrats) and European Democrats, but also the opinion of the European Parliament as a whole, to give Senator Andreotti formal recognition for the clarity, the far-sightedness and the great democratic uprightness that distinguishes this valuable and useful European figure. . –  Mr President, Commissioner Monti, as Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, it is my duty tonight to explain our motive for tabling this question. Interpreting the contributions of my committee, I feel that the Commission has not always made much effort to provide an effective response to the issue of communication. The subject was debated a number of times within the committee and, on 14 April 2000, a year ago now, Commissioner Reding informed us that she was going to present a communication, a project, a strategy, but, so far, nothing has happened. There are delays which we cannot fail to highlight because we feel that the European Union's strategy is closely linked to information and communication. I believe that these are not rhetorical phrases but genuine questions specific to European integration, to the integration of a Europe which we want to be institutional and political as well as economic. The citizens must be kept informed, made aware of the European Union activities, at least where the three most important issues are concerned: enlargement, monetary union and European defence policy. Therefore, if the objective, as was stated at the Lisbon meeting, is for the economic side of things, for the economy to be knowledge-based as well, we cannot ignore the fact, Mr Monti, that the Union, which cannot and must not remain merely economic, is in need of a huge effort in terms of the citizens' awareness and their participation in the integration of this Europe if it is to become a political and civil Union as well. There is thus a contrast, and I would like to make this absolutely clear, between a euro which becomes tangible notes and coins, a currency that becomes a single currency, the euro, which will come into circulation next year, and a Charter of Fundamental Rights which was adopted at Nice, even though it has not been incorporated into the Treaties. My own personal conviction on this matter is that, although there is much criticism of the post-Nice process, every endeavour has been made to lay the foundations for a European Constitution. There had to be an initial stage of the establishment of certain fundamental rights of the European citizens first, and the project which has to be advanced and the development of the necessary cooperation between the Commission and Parliament are linked precisely to the possibility of designing, of formulating a European Constitution which establishes and affirms the rights of all the citizens. The process is a tedious one, however. There was a desire to do everything at once, forgetting that the institutional and legal processes are slow moving and must gradually involve the participation of all citizens. Well then, the issue of communication – as you see, Commissioner, this is not a piece of make-believe but something which is innate in the nature of the relationship between the institutions and the citizens and in the will to build a Europe of the citizens as well as an institutional Europe – is closely linked to a strategy, to a genuine communication project which, I regret to have to say, on behalf of the Committee, is lacking, despite the numerous debates which I have called for and which have taken place in committee and, quite frankly, despite the appeals made by all the groups to Commissioner Reding and President Prodi. We are appealing once again, this evening, to you, Mr Monti, for the motive for the question is linked precisely to this issue. I am sure that you will take these considerations fully on board, or rather, I must add, we must both take the issue on board so that the relationship between the Commission and Parliament is a productive, transparent and lasting one, as it is right that it should be in this legislature and as we are making every endeavour to ensure that it is. The Commission must take notice of what the Parliamentary committee and Parliament as a whole are trying to make them understand and are stating repeatedly. Therefore, if this evening's debate succeeds in furthering a closer relationship and obtaining a genuinely convincing response from you, then I think it will have been a very useful initiative. –  Mr President, as Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, I would also like to personally acknowledge the extremely valuable work carried out by Mr Veltroni. I am pleasantly surprised that such a major, essential measure has been able to obtain the unanimous consensus of the Committee, for I honestly did not think that it would have been possible. Digitalisation will enable citizens to access a substantial quantity of new, innovative content and this is why I can only fully support Mr Veltroni's consideration that all this has implications for democracy, the organisation of Europe and the States and the quality of the communications that we provide for our citizens. This is why I consider that the period of transition from the analogue to the digital system must be our opportunity to entice the user to sample a series of new programmes on offer, not just a mere duplication of the programmes currently available on unencrypted line-aside channels. Mr O'Toole is right in saying that simulcasts would not make it possible to attract a group of substantial users and he therefore believes that a trial period for new audiovisual products on channels made available through digital transmission, possibly only over sections of territory, will enable operators and users to achieve the same objective. The Commission is right to say that the system of funding adopted by the Member States must comply with the principle of proportionality and must not influence market conditions and competition in the Community in a way contrary to the interests of society. In the audiovisual policy, the two fundamental criteria to be applied when drawing up provisions for funding are proportionality and transparency. Transparency implies that the Member States should define a clear public service mission, that financial transparency should be guaranteed and that, if public service operators carry on purely commercial activities, separate accounts should be kept. I consider that this separation has prompted the Commission to produce the best policy currently possible for the States and Europe, a policy worthy of the changing technologies and which will lead to the switchover of the entire system. .  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the Commissioner has said, the proposal before us today is a proposal concerning the reduction of organic solvents in paints, and it is a proposal which is part of a wider environmental strategy, namely the attempt to comply with national emission ceilings, in this case VOC emission ceilings. The proposal can therefore be considered to be one of the measures necessary for the global improvement of the quality of the air which we, ourselves, breathe, and we cannot fail to give this measure our full support. Precisely because we believe firmly in this goal which – as the Commissioner pointed out – has been brought so tragically to our attention this summer, we know that it is in our interest and in the interest of future generations to ensure effective environmental protection. For these reasons, I have taken a very simple line on this report right from the beginning of the legislative process: the achievement of the goal of this directive is closely linked to guaranteeing the quality of the products covered by the directive, in other words paints. The logic is, indeed, very simple. There is a threshold below which the quality of the products available on the market will inevitably fall and, if the quality – not forgetting that, more often than not, these are paints which are used as protective films, particularly against atmospheric agents – drops below an acceptable threshold, the effect will be the opposite to that which we desire. In the medium- and long-terms, there would, indeed, be an increase in the applications of the paint necessary and, therefore, inevitably, an increase in emissions. I have therefore attempted to strike a balance between what it is possible to do technically, without going too far below an acceptable level of quality, and what needs to be done, for precisely the reasons just mentioned. I will now briefly review the key points of the directive. As regards the objective of the directive as such, there were different reactions from the Members, particularly in respect of workers’ health and certain national laws protecting workers. Just this evening, the Commission explained that the goal of the directive is to protect the environment, and to do so without prejudicing or affecting existing measures taken at Community or national level to protect the health of workers, as, moreover, is stated in recital 14. Some of the Members have retabled amendments to this effect in plenary but, after the Commission’s comments, I reiterate that we must reject this proposal for expansion and vote against the amendments, in particular Amendments Nos 2, 10, 16, 49, 54, 80 and 82. However, I support Amendment No 84, which helps us to define and specify the purpose of the directive more clearly. In addition, there is an issue of labelling. Personally, I support the Commission’s proposal to entrust the labelling requirements for the products in question to a committee, first and foremost because, in the light of the manifold efforts on the part of industry to provide consumers with clear information, the committee can benefit from looking at existing best practice. I do not feel it would be appropriate to lay down further requirements, and that is why I call upon the House to vote against Amendment No 20. With regard to what is known as the substitution approach, set out in Amendment No 23, I do not believe it is applicable in this context, for the companies and the industrial system we are addressing need facts and certainties – which we are providing in this directive – precisely in order to be able to invest in research and develop the formulas necessary to achieve the objectives. Then there are many amendments relating to the thresholds, in other words the percentages proposed by the Commission and changed by Parliament in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. I will not go into them all. These are proposals which take us below the acceptable threshold I mentioned just now and must, therefore, be rejected. Lastly, I would like to mention other points relating to minor derogations for vehicles and historic buildings, monuments and such like, which the Commission has accepted and which I call upon the House to adopt, and a few amendments relating to the definition of solvents and their boiling points, which I believe are going to be covered in this evening’s debate too. I would like to end by thanking all my colleagues for their extremely valuable contributions in committee. –  Mr President, I am undeservedly deputising for Mr Nisticò, the rapporteur, who is unable to be here, and I assure Commissioner Liikanen that I will pass on his thanks and compliments. For my fellow Members’ information, I will therefore very briefly describe the measure which we will be voting on tomorrow and, as Commissioner Liikanen already said, represents common ground which the Parliamentary delegation to the Conciliation Committee has supported, endorsed and which it commends to the House for a positive vote tomorrow. As Commissioner Liikanen has already said, this is an amendment to the twenty-third amendment of Directive 76/769 relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (substances classified as carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction). The proposal, based on Article 95 of the Treaty, has two main objectives: to safeguard the internal market by introducing harmonised provisions on the marketing and use of the above-mentioned substances and to achieve a high level of protection for human health and the environment. It is appropriate to point out that we are talking about 25 substances in particular, 14 of which are classified as category 2 carcinogens, such as some cobalt salts, cadmium, benzopyrene, azoic colouring agents and so on; three of these are classified as mutagens and eight as toxic to reproduction. For example, it has been established that cobalt causes carcinogenic effects in laboratory animals and in human beings, particularly lung cancer and myocardial tissue tumours; cadmium powders, for their part, can cause testicular cancer in addition to lung cancer. As can therefore be inferred from these brief examples, we are dealing with highly dangerous substances. During the last year and a half to two years of work, Parliament adopted at first reading, in February 2002, two amendments which the Council, in June 2003, partly accepted by adopting its common position. At its second reading in 2002, Parliament adopted an amendment to the recitals. We have therefore reached the final part of this conciliation, of these three stages and, as has already been pointed out, the problem that still needed to be settled did not concern the substances, but the products which may contain these substances. Well, the agreement on the sole point at issue during conciliation stipulates that the Commission must submit as soon as possible a legislative proposal aimed at banning the use of products – products this time – containing substances classified as carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction where, however – and emphasising this is very important to the rapporteur – there is scientific evidence that these substances are released by such products, thereby exposing the general public to the risks described above. This is why the delegation considers the obtained results to be satisfactory for Parliament and commends it to the House for adoption. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as all those who have spoken before me have already said, Mr Nicholson really has done an excellent job, succeeding in convincing a large part – if not all – of the Commission of the validity of the proposals for compromise amendments he has put forward, which are very appropriate and necessary. Commissioner, we fully agree with the Commission that the measure is appropriate and necessary; previous speakers have already explained why. We need to give consumers and air transport users increasing guarantees, and we need, as has been said, gradually to achieve a situation where the sector is regulated and rights are protected in this field, in order to provide the same possibility of development and to restore consumer confidence. It is, however, true, Commissioner – and I regret to say that this does not appear to be a new scenario – that, although you followed a sound, effective line with regard to air transport, the competent services of the Commission then took – and not for the first time – a rather too rigid approach when it came to specifics. As you are quite aware, I am the rapporteur for the measure on overbooking, with regard to which we encountered the same rigidity as we are experiencing today in the field of insurance. What do I mean by rigidity? I mean an approach that is a little oversimplistic, which does not, indeed, take into account the two fundamental factors already mentioned. Firstly, there are different kinds of air transport: the major airlines are one thing but the regional airlines are another, and private operators – as in this case – are quite another. The second factor which is being overlooked is that this is a difficult time for the sector, not so much because of economic trends – September 11, the Middle East, the war in Iraq and now SARS which, as you know, Commissioner, has already done twice as much damage to the air traffic sector as Iraq – as the fact that, in the face of these economic difficulties, while US airlines are receiving what is practically full, total support from the US Government, we, on the other hand, are leaving most of our airlines on their own to cope with the demands we are making of them and the changes we are asking them to make, however necessary these requests may be. To sum up, then, it was necessary for a good measure to be proposed, but I believe that, on this occasion too, without Parliament’s astute contribution, the good end result we can adopt and endorse today might not have been achieved. .  Mr President, I would just like to inform the House that, in order to avoid confusion between chemical formulae and abbreviations, the English version of Annex I, part I is the correct text. . –Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have pleasure in presenting to the House the recommendation for second reading on the regulation concerning assistance and compensation to air passengers in the event of denied boarding, long delays and cancellations. I think it would be useful briefly to summarise the developments relating to this proposal since its presentation last year. The first reading was adopted in this House last year and it had already highlighted the weaknesses of the initial proposal by the Commission. The main objective of the 39 amendments adopted by Parliament was to bring the regulation into line with the real needs of passengers and to make it more practicable for airlines. Subsequently, the Council’s common position, although it significantly changed the initial form of the regulation, nevertheless incorporated a large number of concerns raised by Parliament: the Council has achieved a significant amount, but a few points remain unclear, particularly given the objective which we set ourselves, which is to draw up clear, transparent rules for passengers that are, at the same time, sustainable by airlines, which, as we all know, are passing through a very difficult period. Considering that perhaps the most thorny issue – the total amount of compensation – has been, we may say at this point, resolved to the satisfaction of almost all the Members, I will merely point out the issues that remain open which are the subject of this second recommendation. The first concerns tour operatorsand their right of redress. The outcome of the vote in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism was not, in my view, completely satisfactory, and now we have a recommendation which is partly contradictory on the subject of tour operators. In fact, in my opinion, minimal changes are needed with regard to the definition of tourist operators and reciprocity of the right of redress – Amendments Nos 5 and 16 – but, on the whole, the Council's position has, from this point of view, put the problem in the right perspective, since it has placed overall, general responsibility on the carrier operating the service. It is for this reason, therefore, that I cannot support Amendments Nos 1 and 9, or the second part of Amendment No 17, for which a split vote has been requested The second issue concerns the distance bands. At first reading Parliament opted for a single distance criterion, in other words division into three bands of distance expressed in kilometres for compensation, delay and the placing of passengers in a higher or lower class. In its common position, however, the Council adopted three different criteria for division, and even introduced a new criterion (inside or outside the European Union) with no clear justification. The disparity introduced does not serve to make the legislative text clearer and certainly does not help passengers to understand their exact rights.  That is why, in this case too, we propose to combine in a single criterion these three different proposals from the Council: a single criterion, that is three distance bands for all cases. We then come to the subject of cancellations. I feel that the Council's proposal, which is the result of a laborious compromise, does not offer us the necessary clarity in this case either and runs the risk of considerably complicating communication with passengers. On this matter, I take the liberty of proposing a single compromise amendment to define clearly when passengers have the right to assistance, particularly with regard to cancellation, and to lay down a single time limit – five days before the expected departure – after which passengers may benefit from financial compensation. I would ask the House to support this position, which, as I said, attempts to make what we are trying to say clearer and easier to communicate to passengers and airlines too. As regards delays, it is necessary to guarantee immediate assistance in the event of long delays, namely information, assistance, refreshments and possibly accommodation, whereas we believe that re-routing and reimbursement of air fares – fully justified for cancellations and denied boarding – would represent an incredible complication in the case of delays and would set off a chain reaction of delays which would paralyse air traffic. Lastly, an amendment has been presented concerning the entry into force, which I think ought to be accepted because it makes sense: we give airlines time to get ready, and what we propose is 12 months. In conclusion, apart from a few other minor observations on amendments which are not significant, I believe that, at this point, if we succeed in adopting this proposal, the Council may adopt a rather more constructive attitude, and this makes me confident that it will be possible to bring this  to a close shortly, in the interests of passengers and of the air transport sector as well. – Commissioner, I would be very grateful if you would be able to lift us out of an absurd situation in which we are in danger of remaining despite many years of debate, including our debate today. Mrs Torres Marques’ excellent report – in which, moreover, she was willing to include contributions from her fellow Members – which she supports with figures, gives such a good account that there is no need for us to go over the ground again, describing how the tourism sector is not just a sector which is vital, extremely important for the European Union today but also one of the crucial sectors for its future, both in purely economic terms and indirectly, because of its potential to contribute to environmental policies, social policies and policies for promoting peace and awareness between the people of different areas. That said, we are now stuck in the absurd situation where, although we acknowledge the value and strategic importance of the sector, we are unable to come up with any policy with a European dimension to help it face its new challenges. The challenges are those that have been mentioned by the Members: there was September 11 and, on a more general note, we are faced with the question of the competitiveness of the tourism sector, whose dimensions have changed; there is a problem of training; there is a problem of environmental sustainability. We need tourism to help us but it needs our assistance too to bring about environmental conversion with a view to achieving sustainability. It is true, Commissioner, that you cannot do much at the moment because of the constraints of the Treaties, but maybe you could speed up policy coordination and even join us in calling – as we are doing – for the forthcoming Convention to develop such instruments, legal instruments which will make it possible to create a sectoral policy that will help us face the challenges of the future. –  Mr President, this is an additional amendment which, in our opinion, specifies the role and the help that therapeutical communities can give more clearly. I will read the Italian text out for the Members: “believes that rehabilitating drug addicts constitutes, in the same way as other areas, a fundamental aspect of the fight against drugs, in that action is targeted at demand; to this end, it supports and encourages the important social contribution as regards rehabilitating drug addicts on the part of the therapeutical communities, whose means should be increased”. . Mr President, Commissioner Wallström, to begin with, I would like to refer briefly to the legislative history of this measure. The tragic accidents that have affected the chemical industry in recent years and, above all, the people living near these sites and the surrounding area could only attract the European Union’s attention. Areas such as Baia Mare, Aznalcollar and, above all, Toulouse and Enschede, have become synonymous with environmental human tragedies, to which we have to respond clearly. It is in this sensitive context that the Commission presented to Parliament and the Council its proposal to amend Directive 96/82 of December 1996 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances. This proposal was the product of in-depth scientific work and we are pleased to acknowledge the Commission’s desire to tackle the shortcomings of the previous directive with a constructive mindset that has enabled us all to send a clear message to both the chemical industry and the people. We will make every effort to ensure that, in future, adequate control measures are adopted and respected. At first reading I, together with other Members, explained the reasons why this strong signal is needed from the European Parliament, and, together, we adopted an approach, which we confirm today, of ensuring that the accidents which have occurred to date do not happen again, guaranteeing protection for the citizens and the workers at these plants and providing substantial protection for the surrounding area. As you are aware, the Council achieved a common position which incorporated the essence of many of Parliament’s concerns. It is true that, after this second reading, there are still some grey areas, although I believe they have been clarified by the conciliation that we carried out which is now awaiting Parliament’s approval. I will mention briefly the main points on which the Conciliation Committee reached a compromise: the first concerns mining activities. The compromise that we reached seeks to guarantee complimentarity between the directive in question and the Directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries, which is at its first reading in Parliament. The scope of the ‘Seveso directive’ is thus extended to operational tailings disposal facilities when used in connection with the processing of minerals. As regards training of staff, in this sector we insisted from the outset on the importance of adequate training of staff in the prevention and management of possible accidents. This idea was confirmed in the Conciliation Committee and Parliament obtained provision for adequate training to be given not only to staff at establishments in question but also to sub-contracted staff at these establishments. As regards a third aspect, maps showing risk areas, Parliament has repeatedly called for provision for illustrated maps to inform the public concerned of risk areas and the extent of the risk, as it believes that this is a simple, clear means of informing all those who could be affected of the potential risk in the event of an accident. An agreement was reached in the Conciliation Committee which provides for these maps or images – equivalent representations – to be included in safety reports and to be made available to the public. My penultimate point concerns potassium nitrate. Specifications and new thresholds for potassium nitrate, proposed by Parliament, were adopted by the Council in the Conciliation Committee. This amendment will prevent farmers using a type of potassium nitrate that is not classified as a fuel from being unduly listed as being subject to the security measures provided for in this directive. The last point regards the database for land-use planning. The compromise reached in the Conciliation Committee regarding a database for risk data and risk scenarios – a database which seeks to assess the compatibility of industrial sites with sensitive areas – calls on the Commission to draw up the necessary guidelines for the creation of such a database within three years, whilst, at the same time, preserving the necessary subsidiarity in the face of the diversity of situations. I will end, Mr President, by thanking the Commission and the Members. I feel that we have reached a satisfactory agreement together which takes into consideration all the demands that were expressed, especially the main objective that I mentioned at the beginning, the need to send our fellow citizens a clear message. Lastly, a technical note: Mr President, in Annex I (I) in particular points 5 and 6, there are definitions that could give rise to ambiguity. I would ask you to note that the correct version is the English version. Mr President, I believe that we would do well to be satisfied – I would say very satisfied – with the result that we are achieving. The Members who have followed this railway package will remember that there have been moments when we doubted that we would succeed in the endeavour to close such a complex chapter. The first result that we must be proud of is, therefore, that of having reached the destination and of having achieved the result. The second is that, objectively, apart from some things that may not convince all the respective political leanings – as we have also heard this evening – we must recognise that we have achieved a balanced result. In these four proposals – for which the rapporteurs must, of course, be thanked for the great work that they carried out – we have a balanced mixture of, on the one hand, the urgent need to open up this market and modernise it and, on the other hand, the need to give us guarantees, both in terms of security and in terms of the ability and experience that the workers in this sector bring, which we want to safeguard. More than anything, what I want to do is say thank you. I would just like to make one observation, because I have heard comments that I am struggling to understand. When talking about this liberalisation, which some are demonising, I would like to call for us not ever to forget that our focus and our objective are the users of this service. No one has the key to liberalisation as such. We must ensure that, by using competition opportunities, we, on the one hand, effectively improve the service for many users who are, primarily, workers – the commuters on this service – and, on the other hand, ensure that this takes place safely and also makes good use of workers’ professional skills. I believe that we have achieved this objective. Since this is my last speech of this parliamentary term, I will take this opportunity to thank my fellow Members. For me, this has been my first parliamentary experience and to have had it in this committee has helped me to understand on many occasions that more is done to build Europe in this difficult, regulatory work that has a direct effect on people’s lives rather than in the many, often pointless, debates on the future and meaning of Europe. –  Mr President-in-Office, practically all the Members have expressed this Parliament’s hopes that you will succeed in bringing this extraordinary task – the Intergovernmental Conference and the constitution – to a successful conclusion. Good luck, we are right behind you! Together with these extraordinary tasks, however, you will also have ordinary tasks to deal with, to which I should like to draw your attention. I shall just mention the main headings: the first is research, which was brought up again by Mr Prodi and which we all agree on. There is also, however, an ethical component in the financing of such research – my colleague Mr Liese will be speaking about it – and we should like you to give us your response on this, leaving aside the woolly obscurantism that Mr Pannella mentioned, which does not actually exist. There are two other issues dear to my heart that I should like to bring to your attention: air transport safety and air passengers’ rights. Unfortunately it took the tragedy of Sharm el-Sheikh to show just how strongly the public feels about this and how much we need to finalise a measure that has been inexplicably stuck in the Council since October last year. Just as inexplicably stuck, Mr President-in-Office, is a measure that this Parliament approved by an overwhelming majority: greater protection for air passengers if they are denied boarding or in the event of cancellations or delays. One government – the German Government – has inexplicably changed its mind, perhaps because it is more sensitive to Lufthansa’s arguments than to the passengers’. I am aware that your government, Mr President-in-Office, was opposed to this measure, but I cannot criticise that because you have always held a consistent position; I am referring instead to those strange, last-minute changes of mind. I am sure that, in your new garb as President-in-Office of the Council, you will be able to further these measures and bring them to a conclusion, because they are in the interests of the European public and our fellow citizens are awaiting them. –  Madam President, I cannot remain silent for Mr Barón Crespo has, of course, made the most of the opportunity to transform what might actually be well-founded comments into a crusade, which has been on the march ever since the Italian people, of their own free will, elected a new government. Mr Barón Crespo just will not accept this, and the sooner he does the better. I want all the Members who are protesting to understand this too: democracy is this, ladies and gentlemen; every people chooses its government freely and willingly. More specifically, I would stress the absolute falsehood of what Mr Barón Crespo has said. The government and the Italian people are more committed to combating terrorism than anyone. The government and the Italian people have paid the price of terrorist attacks in recent years and have always been in the front line. It is silly to confuse the issue. There is no point in trying to put everything under one roof. We are discussing the possibility of extending the European arrest warrant and it is on this, the extension of the warrant to other offences not initially covered, that we are attempting – and we are confident that agreement will be reached – to find a way of accommodating the different legal traditions and the different legislative frameworks of each country, so that we can be sure that the decisions we take to address the current critical situation of terrorism will also provide us with a properly harmonised Community legislative framework. This, then is the issue, this and no other. Anyone who wants to exploit the tragic events of 11 September to continue with this mad campaign against a legitimately elected government will certainly not find support. I will end by suggesting that Mr Barón Crespo reserve his enthusiasm for more justified causes, and that he stop trying to mislead us by confusing the issues on the table. Mr President, as you will be aware, two days ago, an Italian missionary, Annalena Tonelli, was barbarically killed in Somalia in Africa. This woman had, for 30 years, dedicated her life to helping the sick, for which she received praise and support from the entire population and from the Islamic community itself. This barbaric murder has had an enormous impact in my country, particularly because of the extraordinary humanitarian work done by the victim. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would convey the condolences of this House both to the family and to Italy’s institutions on this tragic, sudden death. –  Mr President, in my intervention I will attempt to summarise the opinions of my Italian colleagues, Mr Costa and Mr Nisticò, too, who were previously down to speak, but are unable to be here due to the postponement of this debate.  As the Italian delegation, too, we wish to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, on her excellent work. As many Members have reminded us, we are dealing with the difficulty of finding a balance, which, nevertheless, has been achieved. The difficulty stems from the different experiences and policies of the Member States. At the same time, we must also initiate different types of relations between the Union as a whole and the activities of the individual states, and between the principle of subsidiarity and the need – which has also, rightly, been expressed – for the Union to equip itself with a common policy on this phenomenon which is a real concern for our present, but also for our future. From the point of view of values, I am convinced of this and I totally agree with the ideas expressed by Mr Coelho, and therefore I will not repeat them. Frankly, I am uneasy listening to some positions that send this message to young people: get used to living with ecstasy, get used to living with valium, i.e. get used to a life full of drugs. I refuse to accept that politics should give way upon this issue.  I said that the report is excellent, not just because it rightly puts the two elements of the matter back into the spotlight – a combined action to reduce demand and to reduce supply – but also, may I say, because of the frankness with which Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou criticises what is still insufficient in the Commission proposal, both from a financial and economic point of view – we cannot state the importance of a battle and then not follow through in financial terms – and from the point of view, shall we say, of the political half-heartedness regarding the initiatives that the States still have not made. Therefore, this excellent idea to convene an “inter-pillar” Council is one we should support.  In conclusion, I would just like to emphasise two points that, in our experience as Italians, are particularly important and significant: firstly, the importance of supporting basic scientific research as well so that we gain a greater understanding of the phenomenon, and, if possible, receive early warning of what the alleged drugs of the future will be, especially finding out the devastating effects of synthetic drugs; secondly, the importance of involving in these actions those principally concerned, those who are in the front line every day, who help drug addicts, that is, the experiences of treatment centres. I think that these should be supported and encouraged. Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou willingly accepted this request from the Italian delegation. I think that, in future, when we address this subject again, it will be useful to come back to the point of who is managing and helping drug addicts today. Mr President, the chairman has already spoken about the adequacy of the responses given by the Commission. I will not give my opinion, I will just point out that it has confirmed its defensive position and unwillingness to enter into dialogue with the citizens, whom we merely represent. It does not, therefore, want to understand this message that we are continuing to send out: ‘Be reasonable and negotiate.’ I merely want to ask, in line with the Rules of Procedure, that is to say with Rule 68(3), that the proposal for a legislative resolution is not voted upon and that this text is referred back to committee. Then, in the time that this parliamentary term allows, we will tackle the issue as soon as possible. –  Commissioner, once again, this evening, you have heard many Members express dissatisfaction for a number of different reasons, and these are exacerbated by the problems in the North Sea and Galicia – and we send the people of these regions our heartfelt sympathy – although I do not feel that Mr Nogueira’s approach was the most appropriate way to defend the cause of Galicia; I would therefore call upon the other Members to be more objective and aware of the fact that this is, in actual fact, a Europe-wide issue. There is something I really do fail to understand, however, Commissioner. We have the same perspectives and goals and we understand the concerns expressed by the Commission: we understand its concerns regarding the conservation of stocks; we understand its concerns about not increasing fishing effort. Parliament is on your side. We even agree on providing incentives for scrapping and, therefore, encouraging some fishermen to leave the fisheries sector. I genuinely fail to understand, however, why it is that we cannot succeed in coming to an agreement. You continue to deny that modernisation, specifically modernisation of the fleet, is essential, even though, in our countries, fishing vessels provide the most unliveable working conditions still existing in Europe. Then the other point is the reliability of the scientific data, which we have mentioned several times. Now, I do not believe that an agreement cannot be reached between Parliament and the Commission, given that our goals are the same. I would add just one thing, Commissioner: consider the political implications if we were to fail in this matter. We are on the eve of redefining the Europe we want, and we want it to be more intergovernmental and more Community-based. If you do not succeed in this, it will be evidence that more Community-based organisation means a European Union which is more removed from the citizens and less attentive to their concerns. I do not believe that we will fail, but we must fight this battle together, to ensure that everything we have built up over the past 50 years is not lost. –  Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his patience and determination. I too am convinced that the outcome of the deliberations of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism is the right solution, unlike that presented to us by the Council, and it is a good solution precisely because it reconciles two things which are difficult to reconcile: on the one hand, respect for and enhancement and stepping up of all the efforts to preserve the environment on both sides of the Alps – for there is an Italian side of the Alps as well as an Austrian side – and, on the other, respect for one of the fundamental principles of the European Union, if we really do believe in a European Union, in other words the internal market, the free movement of persons and goods, which are the minimum conditions necessary if there is to be a community of people as well as a community of economic principles. It is therefore a balance which settles once and for all – and it could not be otherwise if we were to avoid making a mockery of the Treaties and the law – once and for all the question of ecopoints, while recognising that a transitional period is still needed, introducing a time frame which we feel to be preferable to that proposed by the Commission and which we would ask the Commission to evaluate. I therefore fully support and endorse this approach, to which we contributed, moreover. However, quite frankly, there is something I must say in conclusion to the Austrian Members. I am rather saddened by the fact that the Austrian Members receive great support in this House from their fellow countrymen, of all political parties, of course, but that they do not enjoy any support at all from the Members of other nationalities. I invite them to reflect on this. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of our responsibility as Members of the European Parliament at such a difficult time for the European Union – in terms of this and other matters – we have to explain to our citizens that belonging to a Union brings advantages and benefits but that it sometimes brings problems too. We will not find a European solution by accentuating the problems. I urge you strongly to think about that. We too could have taken up a stance and refused to budge on this matter but we decided to adopt a more reasonable approach instead. I feel that, for the good of Europe, your attitude should be more tempered and more conciliatory. –  Mr President, as other Members have already done, I would like to thank Mrs Miguélez Ramos for the truly exemplary way she has handled this extremely important, weighty, complicated, complex task, endeavouring to incorporate Members’ views as far as possible. That said, many speakers have reiterated that we are satisfied with the finished product. We cannot be entirely satisfied, but then that may have been inevitable. There are various issues which are as yet unresolved; these are the issues on which we and the Commission will have to work in the coming years, particularly over the next six months. We all know which issues remain unresolved. For my part, I would like to identify what might be called three criteria which, if applied, could enable us to find viable solutions to the individual issues. Firstly, we must not take the line of imposing penalties. This approach too was the result of an excessive desire to educate, to make fishermen understand that if there are no fish they will not be able to continue to make a living. But that is in the natural order of things; it is common sense. The operators know that conserving fish stocks is the best way to preserve their jobs and they are therefore on our side. Secondly, we need more imaginative solutions. For example, we have been pursuing the exclusive line of trying to reduce the fishing effort for years now and we know that that line does not yield results, so let us now try to find a different solution. Thirdly, we need to be aware that we cannot have a common policy which all support if we do not involve the institutions, the operators and the territories. That is why we need regionalisation. If we apply these three criteria, I believe it will be possible to find a viable solution to all the issues raised on which we are focusing, and that we will be able to produce a balanced proposal which combines a common policy with respect for the diversities and individual characteristics of each of our countries. –  Mr President, I must say that, listening to them, I increasingly admire our Austrian fellow Members of all political persuasions. I admire their tenacity, and their rhetorical ability in presenting the unpresentable, alas. I refer to a battle – the reasons for which I understand – which is entirely national, and has nothing to do with Europe, which on the other hand, a battle for the protection of the environment, for the protection of Europe does. Mr Swoboda, you asked what we should make a priority. I think we should give priority to the credibility of the European Union, to the fact that, when we go to our countries and talk to our citizens, perhaps asking them for sacrifices in various sectors, we need to be able to say that we are asking for these sacrifices because there is a higher common good, called Europe, called a community of rights, called freedom of movement, freedom of trade and the whole series of common values that we are putting in place. If, however, we cannot go with this peace of mind and must then tell our fellow citizens that in Europe some are in Division One, and some are in Division Two, then it all gets difficult and it is the credibility of the European institution which will collapse. The problem of living in a healthy, compatible environment is shared by all the citizens of Europe, not just Austrian citizens. I too regret that the level of emissions is unacceptable, but I do not understand why it should be excellent for Austrian citizens, when the problem appears to be completely irrelevant for other citizens. So, my friends, Mrs De Palacio, I do not want there to be any misunderstandings over one point: we have been fast at second reading not just because we want to go to conciliation quickly – although this was one reason too, of course – but because Parliament and the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism are happy with the first reading: we have nothing to change; that is our proposal – which is already a compromise proposal – and the sooner the Council realises this, the sooner we will, perhaps, manage to reach a practicable result. Nobody is labouring under the illusion that we can move a long way from that proposal: we cannot move away from it at all. It must be clear that the scheme will end, that the derogations will end, that the rule of law will be restored, after which we will seek for the whole Alpine region, for both sides of the Alps, to establish the precautions which will take us to 2006 by cutting emissions, because this is what we all want, but no one must be under the illusion that we can make anything other than a very few changes. I wanted to say this, not because the Commission, from this point of view, is not well aware of all this, but because it seems that at times the Council was not. I therefore hope that conciliation will offer us deadlines for a rapid end to an affair which we all, I repeat, want to bring to a close, but in accordance with Community law. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to start by thanking the rapporteur both for the enormous amount of work he has done and also, in particular, for his willingness to accept the suggestions, amendments and proposals of all the rest of the committee, to the point that I feel this report can be said to be a highly collegial report produced by the committee as a whole. Moreover, the current situation is clear – the White Paper and the Green Paper illustrated it perfectly: there is a great problem because of the environmental and social costs we have to bear and because of the attack on free trade that the difference in taxes and taxation systems in our countries imposes upon their economic systems. With this report, therefore, we have identified a possible situation, a road to take, and it is now up to the Commission to take it. I recall the benchmarks that we all share: greater proportionality with regard to use in the distribution of costs, attentiveness to social costs, but also protection of disadvantaged geographical areas and sectors of the population, "yes" to environmental sustainability but, at the same time, reconfirmation of the right to mobility as a universal right. The only recommendation I would venture to make, Commissioner, is that all this is good, particularly the shift to the "user pays" principle, but with the reservation that we cannot allow this principle to penalise the citizens or businesses. Shifting to the "user pays" principle means entering into the rationale of providing a service for which a price is set, and we must therefore guarantee the citizens and businesses what they want and what they are willing to pay for: namely quality. Quality in the context of transport, in my opinion, means above all safety, accessibility and coordination of infrastructures. If we can provide this, then, at the same time, we will have overcome our present difficulties and set the wheels in motion for a new perspective for the future. –  Mr President, Commissioner, many Members have already stressed the value of the solidarity – and this fund is called the ‘Solidarity Fund’ – which is implied in and is the corner stone, the heart of the measure on which we are about to vote. We are building a Europe of solidarity. I would, however, like to highlight another value which I believe is absolutely central to this initiative – and we have all supported it and contributed to its timely achievement– and that is the political benefit to be gained from it. I feel, Commissioner, that there have been very few situations or events in which many, very many of our fellow citizens have for the first time felt that Europe is genuinely close to them, that it is truly an elder brother ready to run to their aid when they are in difficulties. We must never forget that, in some cases, the only experience many of our fellow citizens have had of the European institutions is of a set of rules and regulations, bans and directives. I believe there is a political benefit to be gained from showing them the friendly side of Europe, as we are doing in this case, particularly at times such as this – and we are approaching a major referendum now, we all know the details – a political benefit which we must not allow to go to waste. How are we to avoid wasting it? Commissioner, you put it very well and I fully agree with you. We cannot make this instrument, which was designed to respond to emergencies, rigid, unadaptable or inflexible, in other words an instrument which becomes ineffective or which is even in danger of not being used precisely because the rules to which we are linking it are too complex. We must maintain a certain flexibility in this matter and I can see that you are quite aware of this but – and this is the last point to which I would like to draw your attention, even though, I regret, you are not listening to me – I also feel that we must view this merely as an initial step. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody here wants to see events such as these repeated, but we have a responsibility to be realistic. Soon, there will be 25 Member States, and it is quite clear that the climate is changing. I am afraid that, statistically, it is realistic to expect more such tragedies to occur. Therefore, in the face of tragic events which, I am afraid, will be repeated, I do not feel that EUR 1 billion will suffice. We must endeavour to explore further possibilities for the future, Commissioner, for the 2004 budget, if possible. I will only make one suggestion at a time, and I would like to hear your opinion too. Why do we not set aside part of our leftover funds – for there is always so much money left at the end of each budget which we do not know how to spend – why do we not use a set amount for this fund? I invite you to reflect on the matter. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I, on the other hand, welcome the adoption of this raft of measures today with satisfaction, and if we have any cause for regret at all, it is that it has taken so long to achieve: we have wasted 10 years over this dispute between Spain and the United Kingdom – which was not even based on historical fact – but it cannot be helped. Today, at last, a new horizon has opened up before us. I have to say that, in any case, a great many difficulties arose because the dossier was and still is genuinely complex, and its passage has certainly not been smooth. The effects of this complexity have been felt even today in this House, although it is clear to everybody that there are many economic, safety, environmental and consumer protectionjustifications for producing this package: we have seen the amount of delays, the level of air traffic congestion, the costs of this congestion and the difficulties of creating new airspaces in terms of safety. Despite the fact that we can all see that there are more than excellent reasons why we need this raft of measures, objections have been raised even today and have taken a number of different forms: the rather unusual reference to the States’ sovereignty, cooperation with the military authorities, which has suddenly become so vital – I am particularly surprised to see the far left showing such deference towards the military authorities – and the confusion between liberalisation and privatisation. These are all objections which, in my view, in actual fact conceal a certain resistance and the desire to maintain the status quo, the desire not to change, which is the exact opposite of what our citizens are demanding from us. Commissioner, there are many areas in which Europe needs to take a step backwards rather than forwards, where it must not take over the functioning and competences of the individual States, but this is not one of them. Our citizens are demanding this initiative, and so you must press ahead resolutely and give us a Single Sky through which everyone can travel safely and without concern. –  Mr President, I think the question was quite specific. The Member in question, that is yours truly, did attempt to approach the Commission, which informally provided him with information regarding a situation which could be described as a deadlock. This directive dates from 1992. The problem is well-known – common knowledge in fact – and it is part of the more serious issue of tax evasion, to which we are all extremely sensitive, but it is also extremely damaging to the firms which have no way of coordinating or monitoring it at all. This is why I have had to approach the Council. I now take note of the fact that you have spoken of an undertaking. As a supplementary question, I would like to ask whether you are in any way able to forecast your action, seeing as the Commission appears to be ready and willing whereas, if I am not mistaken, there seems to be some reticence or disagreement within the Council. I would be extremely happy if you could dispel this doubt, for I am sure that all will then proceed very quickly. –  Mr President, Commissioner, no one could dispute the usefulness of implementing the qualitative and quantitative data on the fishing industry, particularly in view of the reform of the CFP in 2002. We are also of the opinion that Community funds should be set aside to fund these activities. A common fisheries policy must coordinate as well as possible the requirements for conservation of species and resource management with economic and market requirements. To this end, more extensive, compatible, uniform data is required, and we expect this to provide us with more general information on the Union’s fishing industry if properly collected and interpreted. However, we also expect there to be greater awareness and appreciation of the peculiarities, differences, varying situations and traditions of the fishing industries, and that they will not be disregarded, penalised or even eliminated due to the misinterpretation of the concept of harmonisation of fisheries policies, as has sometimes occurred in the past. A case in point is the Mediterranean, including my country’s fishing industry. After years of the CFP for the Mediterranean restricting itself to trade regulations and company aid, Regulation 1626 at last introduced a responsible fisheries policy, with measures protecting vulnerable fishery resources in order to ensure sustainable exploitation. This is a worthy objective, the implementation of which, however, has sometimes revealed an ignorance of the biological characteristics of Mediterranean species of fish. A subsequent regulation, Regulation 1448, adopted, not by chance, in 1999, permitted certain exemptions, in particular for special cases. The time period will elapse on 31 May next, to be precise, when the Commission will present a proposal. We hope that the presentation of the proposal will take into account the fact that this fishing system is vitally important for the economy of huge Italian coastal areas and that the scientific data hitherto collected demonstrate that, from the point of view of biological implications, resources are, to some extent, sustainable. –  Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the enormous amount of work she has done, but I do not congratulate her on the content of the report. Mr Lange, I know we are talking about a White Paper, but this White Paper sketches a mere initial outlineof our views, and when we in the PPE-DE express our opinions, we like our subsequent actions to be consistent with them. It is no good saying one thing now and then doing the opposite when the time comes to legislate. Let this be clear: this is a major sector of industry, the leading sector or one of the leading sectors in Europe. This sector employs millions of people and includes tens of thousands of small businesses. However, it is also a sector that is causing concern in society because there are 100 000 unknown chemicals being used, and it is therefore right that we should respond to this concern. That is why we consider the Commission’s proposal and the White Paper to be a good starting point, in that it gives us a procedure, a goal and targets to achieve. We welcome the industry’s willingness to bear the cost of this operation of sifting the good chemicals from the bad and providing information. However, what we do not support is the unnecessary expansion, the complicated procedures of expansion, the extension to too vast a range of substances, the use of scientific grounds which are too vague as the basis for forming opinions, which is what the Schörling report advocates. This, ladies and gentlemen, not only harms the chemical industry but also jeopardises the environmental objective we have set ourselves. As the Romans used to say, ‘The best is the enemy of the good’. Let us steer clear of such at times populist, at times fundamentalist attitudes, for our shared, common objective of protecting health and the environment in a sustainable economy against precisely an excess of, so to speak, overexhaustive initiatives, is in jeopardy. –  I, too, would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has produced a major report in a short space of time. It has already been pointed out by almost all those who have spoken that, in effect, the situation with regard to transport – particularly sea transport – and seaports differs widely throughout our Union: the situation in northern countries differs from that in southern countries, in terms of dimensions and the volume of freight and passenger traffic. However, if we wish – and we do, for we consider it absolutely essential – sea and river ports to be included in the system of trans-European networks and to have their own system, then we must by necessity establish a hierarchy and a classification list for this system. Now, I come from a country which boasts 8 000 km of coastline and would therefore benefit greatly from having as many of its ports as possible included in the "European port" category. However, we have to be prepared to stick our necks out and take what could be difficult decisions for the very reason that, if the strategies selected do not genuinely identify areas and ports with these characteristics, we will be in danger, considering, amongst other things, the lack of funding – we shall have to talk about this in any case for only EUR 400 million are available – we will be in danger of undoing any good work, in danger, that is, of being ineffective. One issue remains to be resolved – which I consider important and which other Members have raised and should therefore be at the centre of the conciliation process – and that is the issue of the islands and the outermost regions: in other words, the issue of those situations in which, even where a port does not meet the volume criteria we have laid down, its activity cannot be allowed to suffer as a result. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at this difficult time for the civil aviation sector, whose future we debated recently in this Chamber when we discussed the single European sky rules, the European Commission has proposed a new regulation on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding. The liberalisation of the air transport sector has brought numerous benefits for passengers. Competition has arrived on many routes, causing a fall in prices and a great increase in the choice of routes and destinations. In spite of this, however, consumers have valid reasons for dissatisfaction. Denied boarding and cancellation of flights provoke strong resentment, and the assistance provided during the excessive delays all too often leaves something to be desired. We in this House fly so often that many of us have experienced such inconveniences, and it is therefore very easy for us to put ourselves in the shoes of the citizens in this case and understand that new, effective legislation is needed to protect their rights across the board. Faced with the shortcomings of current legislation, the European Commission proposes to take a different approach, introducing, on the one hand, a call for volunteers, as per the effective US system, and, on the other, a dissuasive system which compels airlines to provide greater compensation to passengers for damages. In addition, protection is considerably increased, as we will see in a moment. We must not, however, lose sight of the overall context of this proposal. We have had the opportunity to pursue an extremely constructive debate in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, exploring all aspects of the question. As the Commissioner has just pointed out, overbooking, the principal cause of denied boarding, is a negligible consideration when seen against the backdrop of the annual flow of air passengers in the Community area. We cannot risk penalising the entire spectrum of travellers with a potential blanket price increase in order to provide greater protection for a very small number of passengers. We must be very careful and identify precisely the best solutions for achieving the objective without causing repercussions, bearing in mind, not least, the economic impact. In this context, Commissioner, I am afraid I must complain of the lack of statistics provided by the Commission in support of the proposal. We do need practical statistics and facts on which to base a decision, and the lack thereof has certainly made it quite difficult for me to draw up a report. I will now outline the principal points on which we have worked to produce the final document. The first is the definitions. In terms of methodology, I believe it is essential to define all the actors involved and terms used more precisely, to avoid any confusion which might affect either passengers or airlines. To this end, a number of amendments have been adopted seeking to make the provisions of Article 2 more detailed. The second point concerns tour operators. Passengers who have bought a package holiday are already more than adequately protected by Directive 90/314. The Commission’s proposal is therefore in danger of creating confusion over the reference text, to the detriment, principally, of the passengers, and it was therefore necessary to restrict the responsibility of tour operators in the context of this regulation to seats only, as we have done. Lastly, the most controversial point: the provision of compensation to passengers in the event of denied boarding. The Commission’s proposal has given rise to a great deal of debate and much concern. Neither the criteria established for the definition of the new compensation amounts nor the impact assessment satisfy the members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. As far as we are concerned, the important thing is to preserve a balance between protecting passengers and the vitality of a major economic sector such as the air transport sector. We have therefore proposed a three-category division on the basis of distance and a reduction in compensation amounts. Indeed, we must remember that we should be concentrating more on implementing the system of calls for volunteers than on compensation. In addition, I believe it is entirely inappropriate to extend the provision of compensation to excessive delays, for a number of reasons. First of all, because it is not easy to identify the cause of the delay quickly enough, and, secondly, because this would create a chain reaction. We therefore feel it is entirely appropriate to equate denied boarding with cancellation, but we feel it is inappropriate to treat excessive delays in the same way. Rather, we must ensure that a proper, systematic system of assistance in the event of delays is in operation, particularly where people with disabilities or minors are concerned, as regards both the provision of information and logistics, and we have adopted a number of amendments to this end. I would just like to say, by way of conclusion, a quick word about the amendments tabled. They show that the debate on compensation amounts between those who would like them to be higher and those who would like them to be lower is still ongoing. Certainly, at the moment, the only reaction is a certain amount of dissatisfaction regarding our proposal on the part of both airlines and consumers, and this, Commissioner, allows me to hope that, precisely because no party is satisfied, the compromise we have reached is the most balanced and most intelligent solution. Mr President, Commissioner Wallström, I believe that the speeches by my fellow Members, especially those from my group but also from others, have pinpointed the fundamental problem that we have in this report. We are not discussing the extension of rights to information, which we all, clearly, support. We are not discussing the Convention because, as has been said, this is not what it is about as it has been signed. What we are discussing is a rather more general issue, which we have interpreted, Commissioner, as the Commission trying to impose its will in order to make the Convention workable. This has also been well documented in the speeches by various Members and in the tabled amendments: that is to say what some Members have portrayed as an attempt to fast-track environmental legislation. From a legal point of view and given the legal background of the Union and the Member States, the reason for this is not understood. Now, I am convinced that this reason originates in a healthy concern, in good intentions on the part of the Commissioner and Members, but we must be very vigilant about this aspect, because there is the risk that we will be starting a process that will delegitimise our democratic institutions, made up of elected members, governing bodies, assemblies at municipal and local level; in short, the system of democratic guarantees that are the only supreme guarantees able to fully represent citizens’ interests. Now, it is only right and proper to want to pay particular attention to the environment, and it is altogether desirable to want to involve all citizens. We must be careful, however, not to go beyond the limit of the so-called special legislation. When I hear Mrs Schörling talk about no limitations, neither time limits nor geographical ones, then the risk of creating counter powers becomes serious. If this risk were to arise in tomorrow’s final text, then I think that we would do well, as some Members have said, to vote against it. – Mr President, I would like to focus on the Fava report and then make a brief point on this absolutely fascinating debate on the . Commissioner, I would like to ask you to clarify a few points regarding Mr Fava’s report, if possible, since you have said that you essentially endorse the proposals it contains. Mr Fava’s report – which we will support tomorrow – states that the data on which your proposals are based is not up to date and is therefore not particularly reliable: the forecast of 12 000 jobs losses is underestimated and the retraining of the workforce envisaged is virtually impossible given the level of education of the people concerned. Mr Fava has pointed all this out today too, and yet you say that you are essentially in agreement. I fail to understand how you can support the report considering the proposals made. Then the Committee on Budgets points out that there is not enough money and that the constraints are such as to exclude additional funding. Well then, if you, with your imagination, could manage to dream something up, we would be truly delighted. I would propose, and I am anxious to hear your opinion, in view of these budgetary difficulties, giving some of the responsibility back to the Member States – we are going to call for this in another report – allowing them, for example, to apply the  rule to fisheries too, a rule with which you are quite familiar since it is employed in agriculture as well. As far as the other issue under consideration is concerned, I confess I am a little disappointed by the debate. The excessively nationalistic overtones make me genuinely of the opinion that there is no longer any point in having a common fisheries policy. Whether we are talking about Portuguese, Irish or Spanish waters, clearly the scope for debate is reduced by such attitudes. During these periods of genuine difficulty – I am thinking of the serious issues affecting fishermen and their families – the only certain point of reference is the law. By respecting the law, we will be able to reconcile environmental sustainability with rights, the Treaties and the agreements. It is our only safeguard against shifting towards national policies and the only guarantee of our being able to pursue a common policy in this sector. –  Mr President, in company with most of the Members who have spoken before me, I can only say that these reports leave us two essential lines of thought to follow. Firstly, this is a positive evaluation which is consistent with the Commission’s proposal. There are no borders when it comes to subjects such as our present concern of drug addiction and the trafficking of narcotics, and so it is certainly a useful, sustainable initiative to set objectives which include countries which are not currently Members of the European Union but which are in the pre-accession phase, countries taking part in the PHARE programme or Norway, in their prevention or suppression strategies, for this will help us to broaden the scope of our anti-drugs strategy. On the other hand, however, both the rapporteur and the Members have stressed that this occasion calls for reflection upon the way in which the Centre operates and upon the results it has produced in recent years, and I feel that we cannot say we are satisfied with its performance up until now. And quite apart from our own reservations, there is also an independent report, which has just been referred to, which outlines all the limits and shortcomings of this action.  My fellow Member said that these changes will transform the Centre from a statistics office into a drugs monitoring centre. I wish it could be so but I cannot share her optimism. On the contrary, I fear that many proposals and concerns, including those voiced by other Members, will only serve the purpose of rationalising data and making it compatible. I was even somewhat surprised to hear Mrs Ghilardotti mention consumer safety. I would not like the Monitoring Centre for Drug Addiction to be likened to the Monitoring Centre for Food Quality and Safety! Let us be careful, for this is an extremely serious phenomenon which is damaging the whole of our society and destroying entire generations. We must fight against it. So, the efforts to make data from the different countries compatible and the call for efficient dissemination of the data are all very well, but if we think we can achieve these objectives, even our information objective, without taking into consideration the contributions made by the individuals concerned, Non-Governmental Organisations, voluntary associations and rehabilitation communities in the different countries, then we are living in a fantasy world. We must involve them, and then the Centre will be able to perform a genuinely effective and productive part – and we must monitor this – in the fight against drugs. Mr President, Commissioner, I feel that what Mr Hatzidakis said, not least on behalf of the rapporteur, has clearly explained the technical content of this difficult conciliation and I feel that the Commissioner’s words, with which I agree, have clearly illustrated the political content of this extremely complex, extremely complicated decision, which it is difficult to describe in any other way. Taking on board the difficulties – which we understand although we cannot justify the demands – of the Austrian people, we have decided to grant another privilege – because that is what it is, as the Commissioner said – and extend it to a particularly sensitive area such as the Alpine region and to the entire Austrian territory – making it a twofold privilege – and, rather than limiting it to 2004 and then maybe seeing what to do in 2005-2006, we have automatically extended it to 2006. This is the subject of the agreement that we are now ready to support, fully aware that we are going beyond the call of duty. We also believe, however, that, for the good and the preservation of the very sense of European Community, it is right that we make this sacrifice. Any other objections would therefore be inappropriate. Overall, a compromise has been achieved, which is excellent and the best compromise possible for it strikes a balance between the right to mobility and respect for the environment: it takes a gradual approach, it punishes what might be called the improper behaviour of those who fail to renew their HGV fleets while rewarding those who do behave properly, with due respect for the specific conditions and sensitivity of a region. If anyone wants to pull out ofthis compromise, they are free to do so, but they would, without a doubt, be making a mistake: this is the best decision that could have been made and it must therefore be supported. –  Mr President, I would just like to ask the Members to reflect a moment. If the matter is a legal one, we should proceed along legal avenues and the Court should pass judgment; those who need to appeal should appeal and those who demand justice must have it. If the matter is of a political nature – and therefore a matter for Parliament – it is a pity that we do not approach matters of this kind with due caution. I fully appreciate the Commission's position and, indeed, as Parliament, we must be very careful. I am not defending my government out of solidarity – it is not my government, I belong to an opposition party – but I am trying to clarify the matter. We make every endeavour to ensure that the citizens enjoy the same rights in all the States, but they also have to respect and face up to the same responsibilities in all the States. It is intolerable for European citizens to have some sort of privileged access in a State other than their own and not to have to undergo the same tests and bear the same burdens as the citizens of that country, in the case in the point the citizens of Italy. In the European Union, education and teaching is structured according to the principle of subsidiarity, with the result that the laws of the Member States differ. Under Italian law, you do not become a university lecturer automatically by virtue of experience, you have to pass a public examination. Therefore, until we manage to harmonise the laws – which we hope to do – respect for the principle of subsidiarity for the moment means that it is impossible on the grounds of discrimination to do away with something which is in all probability a request for a privilege. I repeat: there must be the same rights but also the same responsibilities for all. Otherwise, this problem, which is political, not legal in nature, will arise again and could occur in other States of the European Union where laws governing university career paths and education are different from elsewhere. I therefore advocate caution. Mr President, Commissioner de Palacio, I would like to use these two minutes to praise the work of the rapporteurs, who have been so persistent and clear on a complex issue that is full of nuances, but who have never lost sight of, or abandoned, the main objective; to also praise every one of us, members of the committee, who have believed in their work and supported it; and to praise the Commission, which has worked alongside us and also allowed us all to achieve a result with which I can say that I am satisfied. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not merely technical satisfaction. Some Members have already said that, on this issue, we could certainly have done more, we could have achieved more, we could have gone further in terms of the level of harmonisation, but I would invite you to reflect on the satisfaction that we must feel from a political point of view: we have, at any rate, succeeded in breaking a taboo, since from now on – and armed with a regulation for achieving it – we can talk about a single European sky; of course, not yet at the level that we want and hope for, but nonetheless on the basis of an actual situation of which good use has been made. There is even more reason to be satisfied because this provision belongs within a framework that has already brought other provisions to bear: I refer to the one, approved by the Council, on denied boarding, and the one – and I really hope that it will be adopted – that Mrs Maes is preparing on aircraft safety. I therefore believe that we must also be satisfied, because this is the Europe that the citizens understand best, the Europe that the citizens feel close to, because it is the Europe that increases their safety, enhances their rights and increases their satisfaction with the response to their expressed needs. I believe that the citizens will be our main allies when, on this issue too, we seek to progress and achieve the results which today are not within our reach but which we will certainly be able to achieve in the years to come. –  Commissioner, I really do not envy you. Quite apart from the many compliments and congratulations you have received in this House, I do not envy you because, I regret to say, you have come here today to declare the failure of a policy. At least from the human point of view, therefore, you have my heartfelt sympathy. How have you declared the failure of the fisheries policy? In a nutshell, you said that we had spent money on reducing the fishing effort, and we see that these funds have, in actual fact, served to increase it; you said that we had spent money on preserving fish stocks, and – on the basis of the figures you have disclosed, although we were not able to see them – fish stocks have become completely impoverished; you said we had spent money on limiting the social impact on this sector in terms of employment, and today you have told us that 66 thousand jobs have been lost and 28 thousand are likely to be lost in the future. Well then, Commissioner, there is one initial question that has, in any case, to be asked: Why, if these were the results – and these results were plain for you to see – has the Commission so persistently defended this common fisheries policy for so long? This is a very pertinent question. I realise and I can see from the proposals you have put forward that an attempt is being made to change this approach, but I will not go into details as we are wont to do on specific proposals for there is no time for that now. I will just make one, very strong recommendation, that I would like the Commission to take into consideration: we must not repeat our past error; we must not see fishermen as the enemies of sustainable development, the enemies of the endeavour to preserve a balance. They are our main allies, they are your main allies. If we – if you, first and foremost – do not involve them in defining the goals and managing the rules we set in place, then no goal will be achievable. Regionalisation is one of the key requirements from this point of view, for our attempt to manage this policy through centralisation has failed. There is another subject I care deeply about: the Mediterranean. You have not presented to us today the proposals which had been announced as imminent. When you do so, I will endeavour to understand the situation and to express my opinion and the opinion of my country on that part of fisheries policy too. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, many Members have highlighted the extraordinary nature of the events and turning-points of European politics that will occur during your Presidency, from the Constitutional Treaty to the Middle East roadmap, the preparations for enlargement and the relaunch of the Lisbon strategy. I certainly mean to recognise the historic importance of these events, but I should like to call your attention, Mr President-in-Office, to the very ordinary nature of the work done by the European institutions. We need to make step-by-step progress on many important files, and I refer in particular to the traffic and transport sector, which Mr Jarzembowski has already mentioned. This sector is in a happy situation, with the arrival of the Van Miert proposal, which has finally given us a new programme of new projects that are equal to the challenges facing us as a continent; your government’s proposal of an ingenious way to finance these projects; and the Commission’s proposal to increase European funding to 20%. This is certainly a scenario with significant possibilities, but we have to round it off, Mr President-in-Office. The Council has been a little remiss in the matter of liberalising port services, in the matter of the railway package and as regards the thorny, age-old problem of the Alpine passes. Tomorrow, Parliament will be voting for the umpteenth time on a call to shelve the ecopoints idea, and I hope this time the Council will agree to follow our lead. Then there is the air sector, and the maritime safety sector. Just an example, then, Mr President-in-Office, to remind you of the commitment which, I am sure, your presidency will be ready to demonstrate in these areas, particularly because every time we manage to make some progress with these files we shall be showing our fellow European citizens tangible proof that Europe offers greater opportunities, well-being and prosperity for all. –  Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for this very authoritative work, but I would also like to add a comment of my own. Frankly, I am not really convinced that our Parliamentary work benefits from the House being tied for over a year and a half to working on a document, even a document as authoritative as the White Paper – with over 400 amendments and who knows what other complications – not least in that the result is this, of necessity very brief, concise debate, in which it is difficult to address a subject of this kind. It may be better to find a new methodology for dealing with the major chapters of the White Paper and to proceed section by section. I am proposing this for the very reason that it is extremely difficult to know what to say in two minutes on such a huge subject. I will therefore focus not on what I endorse – which is a great deal, most of the White Paper – but on what I feel is still a grey area, in other words, Commissioner, the matter of Trans-European Networks. As Mr Jarzembowski has rightly said, if we want to concentrate the Union’s efforts, including its economic resources, then let us look in that direction, in the direction of projects which are of genuine European importance. In any case, we cannot fail to notice that they are not given enough consideration in the White Paper, that the way they are dealt with is inadequate. We have updated a list of projects which are already in difficulties, falling behind schedule, which cannot proceed, but, instead of discovering why they are at a standstill and finding ways and means of speeding up their implementation, we have decided to add to this list and to do so, what is more, with projects which will require a great deal of hard work and commitment. Your idea of indicating the European interest of some of these projects was brilliant, but it has not been carried through. I will end, Commissioner, by saying that there is a general need to focus more on the basic goals, concentrating particularly on matters of European Union infrastructure, urging the Member States to work to this end but directing the work and resources of our committee towards this area too. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I do not think it is right to separate the supporters of the Commission’s measure and those against it into those who have the environment at heart and those who do not. This is an error into which we must not fall, and I must say this with all due respect to the Members from Austria: your representation of the situation is not useful to your fellow citizens. We are all concerned with safeguarding and protecting the environment, and the question of the Alpine passes, amongst others, affects not only Austria but also a large part of a sensitive area like the Alpine region on the Italian side. Why do I say this? Because in the Commission’s proposal, which we share and support, we see the same environmental concern. It has been said that the ecopoints system will not be touched because it has produced results, and this has been confirmed. On the other hand it has been observed – and this cannot be denied – that the ceiling system actually punishes those hauliers that try to adopt ecologically friendly procedures, as has been said, while instead encouraging bad practice, as you well know, and even fraudulent practices: for instance, many lorries go in with a bill of lading, unload in Austria and then leave, and so are not subject to the points clause. All that does no more good to the environment than it does to the transport system. Of course, there is also a problem of guaranteeing mobility, there is a problem of guaranteeing competition among haulage companies, but there is most of all an environmental problem. I ask you to take in the aspect of concern for the environment that is expressed in the Commission proposal; I agree with you all that we certainly need to find stable, definitive solutions for the future, which will really protect us from these risks. – Mr President, I agree with Mr Dimitrakopoulos that the central issue in respect of the problems in Albania – be these of an economic, social or internal security nature – continues to be that of helping that country to reinstate the rule of law, bring security to the citizens, and restore the credibility of institutions and local administrations. Without this rise in the democratic barometer in that country, and in view of the latest electoral shenanigans and the denunciation of the gerrymandering that went on at that time, it is clear there can be no other way of ever resolving Albania’s problems. I welcome the fact that the report at last takes into account and develops two points to which we Italians attach great importance. Firstly, an unstable Albania means instability in the Balkans and an unstable Balkans means instability for Europe. This is an awareness that we must all help to foster. Secondly, another reality is that the pressures brought about by migration and the fight against criminality, both of which originate in Albania, cannot be shouldered by Italy and Greece alone. I have heard many declarations of solidarity and willingness to help, but I must remind you that the only real solidarity shown so far has come from people living in border areas within Italy and by local institutions. I have seen no sign of this solidarity that is supposed to bind Europe, now that it has come to sharing the problems of another people. However, what I cannot accept in this report, and I will state this quite frankly, is that it confuses cause and effect, which is to say it confuses a procedure for the carefully considered issuing of visas, and hence the possibility of migration, with a cause, that of illegal immigration. Things are completely the reverse, so let us not confuse cause and effect. Above all, I find it unacceptable and negative vis-à-vis Albania that we should in a sense intimate that illegal immigration could be tolerated. This is something of which Albania has no need. What Albania does need from us is tangible economic aid and genuine solidarity, but also a little firmness, because it must, with our assistance, go about reconstructing for itself a framework for the rule of law. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I think we should all be really grateful to Mr Martin, not only for the excellent job he has done, as everyone has recognised, but because he is effectively enabling us all to pin down this subject of aquaculture. It has already been said: from now on, we will make a distinction between before and after the Martin report. We can truly say that this industry has, today, come of age, it has become a fully–fledged adult industry with its own particular characteristics and features, it has stopped being an appendage of the fishing industry and, therefore, it needs from us all the attention that any industry of a certain economic stature deserves. As other Members have said, the figures speak for themselves: this is an industry where employment is growing, it is an industry that is responding to rising demand, it is an industry that eases the difficulties of many coastal areas which would otherwise have no alternatives, it is an industry that also helps us fight the battle we have ahead of us with the decline in wild fish stocks. Furthermore, unlike fisheries reforms, it is an industry on which the Commission and Parliament find themselves in substantial agreement. I am delighted to have heard Mr Solbes’s praise for this report today, and we can all see that there is convergence on matters of food safety, research and the environmental compatibility of this industry. We have therefore reached good common ground. In conclusion, I would just like to ask the Commissioner to pay greater attention to the two issues that Parliament wants to raise: first, the changes in the FIFG regulation, the financial regulation, particularly as regards young people’s start–up and the modernisation of farms; and secondly, the natural disaster fund. Commissioner, one cannot declare how valuable and useful an economic sector is without then taking consistent measures to sustain it. Mr President, Commissioner de Palacio is quite right to express her satisfaction with the work that was carried out on a very sensitive road safety issue. As a group, we must congratulate Mr Rack, who carried out a very difficult task. Let us not forget that the text that will emerge from this House today is a text that strongly reflects the contribution made by the European Parliament and its amendments. The first Commission version, as Commissioner de Palacio said, was somewhat too regulatory and prescriptive and it would have been difficult to enforce. I feel that we should be delighted to stress, on the one hand, the excellent work by the rapporteur and, on the other hand, this good example of Community legislation. When they want to, the three institutions are capable of working together and working well. I feel that this is an extremely important message, for our European citizens too, since the issue of road safety, as the Commissioner recalled, is something that we have long been concerned with in this parliamentary term. I am disappointed, Commissioner, that we did not succeed in finishing off the proposal on driving licences but unfortunately there was not enough time for us to do so. I am also disappointed that in the next parliamentary term we will not, I am sorry to say, have your tenacity and constancy to wrap up the issues that remain open. Nonetheless, I am convinced that you will, in any case, contribute in other roles. That being said, we still have to take a further step on this issue. A large part of the costs of this provision will fall on some countries of the Union in particular – at least 50% of these tunnels are in my country – and I believe that it would be useful, in the next parliamentary term, to find means to financially support this endeavour, which should not be left solely to individual Member States but must involve all the European institutions. –  Mr President, quite frankly, it is difficult at this point to add anything new; apart from anything else because the situation is rather odd. As other Members have said, we fully support the Commission's proposals. Let us all pull together, so to speak, so that we can present a united front to the party we really have to convince, which is against this proposal as it stands. It is an extremely reasonable proposal, which is not intended to distort the initial position. Ultimately, we are calling solely for this instrument which is so very important – as the rapporteur, Mr Watts, made clear – more in terms of the culture of safety than in terms of efficiency: this black box can genuinely change behaviour, it can force people to realise that the issue of safety exists and that they must be properly equipped. The aim is therefore to introduce, as far as is possible, a new culture of safety, and to define a different two-pronged structure for financial compensation.Moreover, I feel that Parliament's proposal gives much more consideration to the principle of subsidiarity, which gives each Member State different options to choose from. Therefore, basically, there is no great dispute. What is truly incomprehensible is how the Council can fail to realise the importance and political consequence of a taking a timely decision on this matter. It has already been said that we cannot allow issues which are, when all is said and done, so minor, further to delay an initiative which would carry great political weight, not just because it would put an end to and remedy a situation which has caused great alarm but, in particular, because it would show that, for once, we are being more far-sighted. We would not want, one day, even before we succeed in launching this measure, the accidents of lots of little  which, I am sorry to say, continue to take place in our waters,to cause another major disaster. We do not want this to happen and we call upon the Council to act wisely. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we received with great interest the Commission communication on a Community Action Plan for fisheries in the Mediterranean Sea. This communication responds to a frequently expressed demand which is wholly legitimate, given both the importance of the Mediterranean fishing economy for the European Union and the specific nature of fisheries in the Mediterranean region. The current regulation on fisheries in the Mediterranean – Regulation 1626/94 – has thus far survived only thanks to derogations which, although, on the one hand, have made it possible to save the unsaveable, as in the case of special fisheries, have, on the other, served first and foremost to highlight the inadequacy of the Union’s approach to the Mediterranean question. Indeed, we all know that applying the principles of the common fisheries policy exactly as it stands is counterproductive to the Mediterranean and can even, at times, be harmful if we consider the socio-economic consequences. That is why I welcome with particular satisfaction the Commission’s endeavour, this endeavour to establish the specific nature of the Mediterranean and the sustainability of fisheries resources as new criteria in the future action plan. There are many positive aspects of the communication, such as, for example, the delegation to the Member States of responsibility for managing coastal fishing, the involvement of fishermen’s associations, dialogue with third countries and the consideration given for the first time to leisure fishing. Nevertheless, following a proper analysis of the sector and its specific characteristics carried out by the Commission with regard to the solutions, the rapporteur and our Parliamentary committee feel that not enough effort has been made to find imaginative solutions and avoid recourse to conventional CFP – common policy – instruments, whereas, for the Mediterranean we need an innovative, coherent, step-by-step measure whose thrust can be altered whenever it is deemed necessary. I would now like to draw your attention briefly to a number of points contained in my report. Firstly, the Union’s systematic, multilateral approach must be a reality, not just wishful thinking. Involving fishermen’s associations must include promoting the experiments carried out at local level with a view to responsible management, experiments which demonstrate the effectiveness of the selective equipment used and the effectiveness of alternative ways of managing the fishing effort, such as, for example, temporary closures. Rigidly and systematically transposing CFP management mechanisms such as minimum sizes or TACs is liable to negate fishermen’s determined efforts and could prove to be counterproductive. Moreover, premature implementation of inadequate technical measures would be liable to render ineffective the multilateral dialogue which the Commission plans to hold with the third countries of the Mediterranean region with a view to the sustainable management of the Basin as a whole. What we want is for the negotiations with countries which, like us, fish the Mediterranean Sea to be undertaken as soon as possible, so that we can submit the results of these talks to the forthcoming Mediterranean Interministerial Conference on fisheries due to take place in Venice in November 2003. The second point is the emphasis placed on the fundamental role of research to support an effective fisheries policy. As we know, from this point of view, the specific characteristics of the Mediterranean have always represented a problem, but we must emphasise the need for scientific research to be relevant to the action plan. It is in this regard that we propose a Mediterranean research model based on local data-collection networks. Then there are the structural implications of the action plan, which we feel the Commission has underestimated somewhat. In particular, we consider the part dedicated to this point to be unsatisfactory. As a committee, we propose to evaluate, in cases such as this one, not least, innovative support measures, particularly the measure extending the  rule to the fisheries sector. It must certainly not be forgotten that 80% of Mediterranean fishing is small-scale and tied closely to the areas concerned, whose socio-economic equilibrium verges, more often than not, on mere subsistence. Lastly, Mr President, there is the line taken by the Commission on the environment. It appears to us to be somewhat incomplete in that it does not acknowledge that fishermen are more often victims of, rather than responsible for, environmental damage. In a region where genuinely coastal fishing predominates, the key to sustainable coexistence remains, in any case, the integrated management of coastal areas, an aspect to which the Commission fails to give sufficient emphasis. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will end by thanking my colleagues from the Committee on Fisheries for their extremely helpful suggestions, which allowed us ultimately to achieve unanimous consensus on the report. Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that the Commissioner and we as Parliament are right to claim responsibility for a measure adopted in this parliamentary term that is finally effective in the area of safety at sea. What we are dealing with is a series of provisions that completes the picture of fruitful work, which includes the provision for double hull tankers to be on the black list of ships that are no longer sea-worthy, the call for Member States to provide a list of refuge ports: a raft of measures that have been taken during this parliamentary term and for which we must give credit to the Commission, but for which we must also claim our part. This is, therefore, what compelled me and my group to fully support the Pex report, in particular, and I would like to highlight one of its amendments – which I have heard being challenged in parts but I believe that we should all appreciate how useful it is – on the call for a European coastguard to be set up as rapidly as possible. We cannot call for greater controls, we cannot expect sanctions to be enforced if we do not have the instruments to do so effectively. This would be a great step forwards, also for a whole range of other issues that we are faced with in the European Union, not least that of illegal immigration. I believe that we need to carry out a general review. On the issues of safety – aviation safety, as we heard just now, safety at sea, and I would add food safety – European public opinion is at times far ahead of governments; it calls for more Europe, for European regulations. We should feel encouraged by this feeling amongst the public and also call on the Council, which has to date been somewhat reticent on these issues, to not disappoint such important expectations, which, for our fellow citizens, have increased recently and which can really give us important results for the future. . –  Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic accidents which have recently affected the chemical industry and, above all, the people living in the vicinity of the sites and the environment, could not escape the European Union’s notice. Baia Mare, Aznalcóllar and, in particular, Toulouse and Enschede, have become synonymous with human and environmental tragedies to which we have a responsibility to provide a clear response. It is against this sensitive backdrop that the Commission presented to Parliament and the Council its proposal for a directive amending Directive 96/82 of 9 December 1996 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances, better known as the Seveso II Directive. This proposal is the product of in-depth scientific analysis. We must therefore acknowledge the Commission’s intention to tackle the shortcomings of Directive 96/82 in a constructive spirit, which means that we can now send a clear message to both the chemical industry and the people. We will do everything possible to ensure that adequate control measures are adopted and observed. As rapporteur, I have tried to favour a methodological approach based both on the scientific basis of the proposed amendments and an evaluation of the impact that they will have on the European economic system. It is certainly not an easy matter to introduce or strengthen precautionary rules so it is absolutely essential that we find a fair balance between the need to lay down changes that are sustainable for the chemical industry and the need to send the public a clear message of safety. The method for identifying the necessary changes is clear: taking the conclusions of the two accidents as a basis to ensure that such accidents are not repeated. In practice, the proposal modifies two fundamental criteria: the minimum thresholds for the presence of substances in sites and the inclusion or reclassification of new activities or dangerous substances, in order to strengthen controls and reinforce accident prevention. All this will, of course, increase the number of sites affected by the new directive considerably, but we must not forget that what is at stake here are public safety and environmental protection against substances which could cause irreparable damage. I will therefore avail myself of this methodology to give you a brief account of the substantial changes proposed by the Commission and the amendments tabled by this House. The accidents that occurred at Baia Mare in Romania and Aznalcóllar in Spain have led the Commission to bring mining operations and landfill sites within the scope of the directive too. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has, at the proposal of the rapporteur, specified the conditions for inclusion of sites and mining operations, specifying that all sites in which preparation or processing of hazardous substances takes place, irrespective of the type of processing, fall within the scope of the Seveso II directive. Moreover, we have stipulated that this applies solely to plant, mines and quarries which are in operation and not to mere storage areas. Secondly, the disaster in Enschede has led the Commission to draw up new provisions on explosives. Despite the various proposals made by Members, the Commission’s proposal has been deemed the most suitable for the intended purpose. Lastly, the accident in Toulouse, which occurred at a time of growing insecurity, has left a lasting impression in the minds of us all. For technical reasons and because of lack of time, the issue of ammonium nitrate, the substance responsible for the explosion, has not been addressed by the Commission. With the full support of the Commission, Parliament and the Council are currently endeavouring to fill this gap. The issue of ammonium nitrate is extremely complex and it has required a great deal of debate to establish the appropriate subdivision and thresholds for the different types of ammonium nitrate to limit the risks of accident to a minimum. What we have to work out is whether we should adopt the more rigid position at European level as regards thresholds or whether, on the basis of Article 176 of the Treaty, we should allow any States which consider it necessary to adopt additional, more restrictive measures, as, moreover, they are already able to do. For my part, I am again tabling in plenary an amendment which provides for a higher threshold for the fourth category of ammonium nitrate products, to ensure without a shadow of doubt that agricultural holdings are excluded from the directive’s scope. Then there is one last thing we must do, which I will mention briefly and which we included in our report: we must call upon the Commission to send us a proposal within a reasonable timeframe defining criteria and methodologies to be used for land use planning – another serious problem which has emerged – in other words, deciding where plant should be located. Lastly, and this is my very last point, I would remind you that the Commission has endeavoured to strengthen provision for public information, which is something I feel will be especially beneficial and, above all, which we have a duty to our fellow citizens to provide. I would like to end by thanking all my colleagues who have taken part in and contributed to this process and the committee’s secretariat. Mr President, while the Commissioner takes note of the matter, I would like to say that I agree with Mrs Corbey. This is exactly the sense of the proposal contained in the voting list proposed by the rapporteur: Amendment No 11 and Amendment No 13 are contradictory. I would, however, say to Mrs Corbey that this is the result of a mistake on the part of our committee. I therefore call upon the House to support and adopt Amendment No 11 but to vote against Amendment No 13, precisely in order to establish a definition of ‘thinners’ which is consistent with the rest of the legislation. –  Madam President, I too would like to start by congratulating and thanking the rapporteur, Mr Grosch, for his work at first and second readings and for his willingness to listen to colleagues’ suggestions, achieving a result which would appear to have won broad backing and which therefore has excellent chances of being adopted in tomorrow’s vote in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an issue which never ceases to be very tragic and relevant. Once again, in my country, last Saturday, on Saturday night, there was yet another case of what we call Saturday–night carnage. Four young people were killed on the roads. These incidents have become regular now, occurring with tragic frequency, and they have rightly led to an increase in social alarm at the unnecessary carnage on our roads. There is no doubt that one of the most effective solutions lies in training. Like Mrs Sommer, I expressed my opposition to the creation of a European Road Safety Agency when it was discussed. Indeed, we do not need any more centralised bodies, which would probably mean more red tape – we need road safety policies. There is a difference. Today, I am pleased to say that, with this directive, we are making progress in one of the key areas towards the goal we must all set ourselves: the goal of safe roads. Why is this one of the key factors? Because, as has already been reiterated by many of the Members, this directive of ours makes training ongoing, as it needs to be. The requirement to pass a driving test is no longer a sufficient safeguard: we must ensure that especially those whose jobs consist of driving, such as goods-vehicle and professional drivers, are constantly monitored, for their own safety, first and foremost, but also in the interests of the safety of other road users. I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission, which I see has already undertaken to cooperate, for if we are to have training, we all have to agree on what we mean. It must be a serious undertaking, not a formality, and so the structures which our States are to certify as capable of performing training and to accredit with the necessary authorisation must be responsible centres whose professionalism is proven and consolidated. In this regard, in my country at least, the experience possessed by driving schools is a very useful factor which should be exploited. In this way, I believe that the directive will help to achieve effective training and so make our roads safer. Madam President, Commissioner Fischler, we must indeed compliment Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, who carried out this excellent work which, at least according to the Commissioner, will also meet with approval in the Commission regarding the aims and objectives that we have set. This is certainly something that consoles and encourages us. The issue of fishing gear and environmental sustainability in this extremely important fisheries sector were well dealt with, and there are two further issues where – and here I would like to appeal to my fellow Members – we must try to maintain a balance. Within the fisheries sector, tuna fishing is extremely important for the European Union in the two areas that it includes: on the one hand, extractive fishing – fleets that fish tuna in our waters and those outside the European Union – and, on the other hand, the important pillar represented by the processing sector, which processes tuna of European origin but also, as has been mentioned, tuna originating, in particular, in the seas of Asia and other seas. We must, of course, focus on safety, in particular as regards these productions, but – and on this matter I am glad that the rapporteur agreed with me that we must not proceed rashly – we must also be very careful as regards customs regimes. With this report we are calling for a study and for the Commission to carry out an assessment. I agree with the Commissioner that one of the preferences is a regime which has to date given results whilst, compared with other countries, we have one of the highest customs duties. So, balancing the two pillars of the European fisheries industry – processing and fleets that fish tuna – is an objective that we cannot abandon and which we must focus on. I believe that, with the wisdom that distinguishes this House – and the report currently before us is proof of this – we will succeed in guaranteeing both aspects and, thus, a more prosperous and more sustainable tuna fishing industry in the European Union. .  Mr President, Commissioner, this Commission proposal on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights has, at last – it is to be hoped – come to the end of its journey. Before going any further, I have to say that I believe conciliation has yielded the best possible outcome, given the fact that the process has been just as difficult and complex as that we have just been discussing. I will now summarise the key points of this conciliation, which focused on what had not been resolved at first and second readings, but I would also like to stress the essential and fairly simple concept underpinning this compromise: in other words, we have to consider the rights of air transport passengers as part of a more general context, as part of the whole system of air transport. A system in which all the players on the field, including control authorities, management authorities, airlines and the passengers themselves, are interdependent. Thus, the best way of guaranteeing effective passenger rights is to ensure the smooth running of this system: to make sure that none of the rules we want to introduce hampers this extremely sensitive, large-scale mechanism. As the Members will remember, the Commission’s initial proposal gave rise to huge numbers of concerns. Parliament attempted to address them by adopting 40 amendments. Then came a Council common position, which we immediately realised had improved the text, in particular as regards the then thorny issue of the amount of compensation, although other points which Parliament had raised had not been followed up. What were the most important of these points? They were those which concerned procedures for implementing the various levels of assistance to passengers in the event of cancellation or long delay of flights. Now, as regards these two points, long delay and cancellation of flights, I believe that the result we have achieved reflects to a great extent what the best airlines already offer to passengers voluntarily and only introduces one new element, namely the certainty of these rights for passengers, certainty which is not limited, even though extraordinary circumstances are not excluded. Indeed, we convinced the Council, and Parliament is pleased to have achieved this, that there is just one message we have to send out: ‘Dear passenger, we cannot guarantee you many rights, we can only guarantee you a few, but those which we guarantee are certain, they are not subject to conditions’. It would, indeed, be a mistake and counterproductive to raise expectations and then see these rights denied and these expectations crushed by the behaviour of airlines. I am talking about even the most basic rights such as, for example, the right to be able to have a drink, to be able to make a telephone call, to be able to contact friends or relatives. We have therefore produced a mechanism which introduces a tier-system for services which have to be provided to passengers, and, most importantly, a full range: from minimum service – on-the-spot assistance in airports in the event of cancellation of flights or excessive delays of over five hours – to some sort of compensation for damages, specifically financial compensation, which is the highest level of protection we have provided. I feel it is important to mention the agreement on mutual right of redress: this was an important point of the conciliation text because it allows, for instance, tour operators who have to comply with these regulations to claim from the air carrier operating the service where the air carrier is responsible for the provision of bad service. As you know, the other points are of minor importance, such as, for example, coherence with everything we had introduced at first reading. I will end, Mr President, by thanking all those who have helped to achieve this result, which I feel is to be supported, despite the pressure in recent hours from a number of lobbies who are doing everything they can to stop the text being adopted. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this recommendation for second reading on the Council common position on the proposal to amend the ‘Seveso directive’ warrants a brief synopsis of its history. In the sensitive climate of the tragic accidents which have affected the chemical industry and, in particular, the communities living in the areas surrounding these sites, as well as the environment, the Commission presented to Parliament and the Council its proposal to amend Directive 96/82/EC of 9 December 1996, which lays down provisions, of course, on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances. The proposal had the merit of being based on very thorough scientific work and of providing a constructive analysis of this sensitive matter. At first reading, I and other Members explained why it is necessary for the European Parliament to send out a signal loud and clear. My aim – which I confirm today – is, as far as possible, to ensure that such accidents are never repeated, ensuring both the safety of the citizens and workers at these plants and, of course, environmental protection. The Council has produced a common position which essentially takes into account many of Parliament’s concerns, but a number of grey areas still remain, and these are the following. Firstly, the inclusion of mining activities and land-fill sites, an issue on which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has decided to retable the amendments from first reading, in other words the inclusion in the scope of the directive of all types of preparation and processing of dangerous substances in these sites – not just chemical or thermal preparations, that is, as envisaged by the Commission. I would point out, moreover, that we are only talking about active plant. We are aware that the Commission has, just recently, launched a specific proposal for a directive on the management of waste from mining activities, the terms of which will, moreover, have to be decided together with the European Parliament at the appropriate time, but, until then, there is and will continue to be a gap in the law which, given the recent accidents which have alarmed public opinion, cannot be tolerated. However, I am not excluding the possibility that the progress of the new directive on mining activities through conciliation might make it easier to reach agreement on this point. The second question is that of staff training. Here too, taking the same line as the Commission this time, we have proposed specific training measures on managing emergencies for all staff, including the staff of sub-contracting firms. Indeed, it is appropriate to provide for adequate measures not just on the handling of dangerous substances but on managing emergencies too, in order to limit potential damage as far as possible and to guarantee workers’ safety fully. However, as rapporteur, I feel it is unnecessary to include the list of training measures in the notification provided for in Article 6 of the directive, which is why I would urge you to vote against Amendment No 3, as at first reading. The third question is that of urban development planning. In this area, the Council has already taken into consideration Parliament’s desire to lay the foundations for definition at European level of methodological criteria which are necessary to assess compatibility between the sites in question and the areas at risk, not least by means of Union funding. However, given the great diversity of rules, regional situations, competences and responsibilities which characterises this aspect of safety – situating plant in terms of urban development planning – I believe that we must, of necessity, invoke the principle of subsidiarity and leave it up to the Member States to decide on the minimum distances. That is why I have called for a split vote on Amendment No 6, and will only vote for the first part of the amendment. As regards the map showing risk areas, the committee believes that the pictorial representation of areas adjacent to the establishments subject to accident risks would be an effective, easily comprehensible measure for all the citizens concerned, who are entitled to greater clarity in this regard. To this end, the rapporteur has incorporated the wording used by the European Commission in the amended proposal for a directive. Lastly, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has proposed once again that a distinction should be made between forms of potassium nitrate, with new thresholds, in order to avoid farmers who use a form of potassium nitrate which could not be classed as fuel, falling within the scope of the directive. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the main points. Clearly, we are on track for a conciliation procedure. Indeed, the Council was unable to reach agreement on a compromise package and it did not, if the truth be known, seem to me to be particularly interested in achieving such an agreement with Parliament. I remain confident, however, that, with a constructive debate, it will be possible to achieve a solution which ensures maximum safety in these plants. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on the Environment and the staff of the European Commission, who have been particularly helpful and cooperative. –  Mr President, I fully support the Commission’s endeavours to simplify the legislative framework from 17 directives to a single regulation. However, Commissioner, precisely because this is a regulation, you know better than I do that prudence must be exercised, for the regulation will be implemented immediately and, by its nature, harmonises, or rather, I would say, as good as standardises all the procedures throughout the vast area of the Union in the food and gastronomy sector, which, we must never forget, is a major part of the culture and civilisation of our continent. I therefore agree that there is a need for harmonisation, but we must remember to exercise caution. I would like to focus on three points, in particular. The first, which has been fully addressed in the report and by the rapporteur, is the question of traditional products, products which have a history not just as products but in terms of their production processes too. Restricting these products to geographical areas or local markets is not enough: they are genuine products which need to be dealt with separately. Secondly, the question of the primary sector, which is certainly not fully covered by the regulation but which is regulated to some extent. The situation is different for the primary sector, particularly where small and medium-sized businesses are concerned. I have tabled an amendment which I urge you to support, which seeks, at least, to reduce the bureaucratic, administrative impact as regards keeping documents – it makes no sense for records relating to vegetables to have to be kept for five years. Thirdly – apart from the question of game, which I will mention briefly in passing, with regard to which a balanced solution appears to have been found – there is training. It is right to ensure that our food chain operators are always trained. With regard to this aspect too, we must avoid enlarging the scope of the debate to include quality, which is a separate issue: there must be training on hygiene and hygiene alone. –  Mr President, as well as congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work now and, particularly, at first reading, we must congratulate the European institutions in general, who have succeeded in doing a good job on this issue. As we all remember, we started off from positions very far apart, opposing positions in some cases, and we – Parliament, Council and Commission – succeeded in reaching a compromise which we feel will be genuinely capable of catering for even the most radical demands, which some of the Members have upheld this evening, while satisfying a further, absolutely imperative demand which we endorse and support, namely the need to liberalise the public services in the interests of the citizens and consumers, and this is not a whim or part of a general liberalisation trend. The purpose of liberalisation is to improve the quality of the services provided to the consumer, the user. Clearly, there are some services which require particular attention and this is one of them. We have been very careful with this sector: we have introduced more stages, more steps into the process and have achieved a genuinely satisfactory result. We are convinced, it is our hope, that this text – which we hope will not need any form of conciliation – will become a clear, unambiguous legislative point of reference. There are no grey areas and, even if the letter were to prove at all ambiguous, the substance is clear, Commissioner, and we call upon and expect the Commission to abide by the text in its work. We likewise call upon the other Directorates-General and your other colleagues to follow the line taken by the text, particularly the members of the Directorate-General for Competition, who will deal with disputes that are still pending and some of the problems left over from the past in the light of this development, in the light of what we decide today. Henceforth, the path we must take is clear: we expect you all to follow it with due care and commitment. –  Mr President, I am sorry you could not give me the floor when I asked for it before the vote on Amendments Nos 55 and 56, precisely because the oral amendment was intended to allow the House to decide whether it could unite behind the compromise incorporated into my proposal before voting on Amendments Nos 55 and 56. At this point, as the first part has fallen because unfortunately I was not given a chance to speak, it is absolutely pointless to take the oral amendment, which related to the first part. I am sorry, because if we had accepted the reversal of the order, as the rapporteur proposed, I would have been able to present it. I tried to do so before the House voted, I did not get the floor and this is the result. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Musotto on his excellent work. It is difficult to not repeat points which have already been made by other speakers at this stage in the debate. I will be brief. One: cohesion policy has proved to be a policy that works, and the report confirms this. It may not work as well as we would expect or like it to, but it is a policy that yields results. What is more, in many regions, for many of our fellow citizens, it is sometimes the only practical, positive, friendly aspect of the European Union that they see. This is an asset which increases the spirit of European citizenship and overall cohesion. My second point is a fact: we can try to postpone it, ignore it or put off dealing with the issue, but it is still a fact. In practical terms, enlargement will upset the balance and distort the statistics on which we have built this cohesion policy, for we have based it on what is certainly a statistic, the number of inhabitants and the average income disparity which will be created. I feel rather hesitant about advancing proposals on this issue, Commissioner, but I would invite the Commission to be less reticent. Starting to think about the way cohesion policy will have to change in the face of enlargement does not mean placing a question mark over the entire policy of enlargement. My suggestion is that this debate could, perhaps, focus on three factors: resources, as has been said, for it is unthinkable that resources should remain at their current level; the tools, for I feel, for example, that, while the Structural Funds are a tool which is suitable for a cohesion policy which differs greatly from region to region, it may be that the Cohesion Fund, which is less selective, should be rethought, at least in terms of the way its funds are allocated; coordination of the policies. In many cases, where there are no additional resources, coordinated policies could be of benefit such as, for example, tax discounts, which it is still not possible to apply to some regions because of a rigid Commission policy on State aid. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Varela on his far-sighted report, which was accepted by the entire committee, and Mr Cunha, who has also done an excellent job. However, it cannot be denied that, as has already been mentioned, the points and issues we are discussing today are the same as those dealt with by the Gallagher and Poignant reports. I will not go back over the technical reasons why these issues are sensitive: the 6/12 mile limits, protected areas, maintaining the principle of relative stability, regionalisation which can somehow be interpreted as renationalisation. I, too, see the nature of these issues as very specific and share the view stressed by my fellow Members that they are sensitive. With regard to this, I repeat that, for the very reason that we are going through a period of reform – and if we are carrying out reforms then it is because our current strategy is not working or the possibility of reform would not arise – we must be very aware that we cannot leave everything as it is, nor, moreover, can we continue to be inconsistent in our recommendations. In this regard, the Group of the European People’s Party has tabled amendments aimed precisely at achieving greater coherence between the positions. I would, however, make one entreaty to the Commissioner and to all of us: it is important that a balance is found, for a major political reason apart from anything else. At the last part-session in December, we all – Commission and Parliament – criticised Nice because the countries' desire to protect their own national interests took root once again and we condemned that Council for placing the Community method in crisis. Now we must work to ensure that a common policy is genuinely achieved in this typical sector, but in order to do so we must respond to those who are complaining – namely the operators – that there is insufficient participation or backing for the choices made, therefore that there is no cooperation in the decision-making process. If we do this, we will be able to prove – and I am convinced that we are capable of doing so – that it is possible to achieve a sound common policy, valuing differences rather than penalising them and involving the operators of all the Member States, particularly the fisheries operators in all their diversity. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we were to have a discussion with the Council, but, as we are quite aware, we are partly to blame, for we extended our previous work. The fact remains – and I, too, agree with the Members who have made this point – that it is a pity that this opportunity cannot be fully exploited. There is not much point in holding the debate if the Commission and the Council are not here, but let us, at least, use it to discuss the matter amongst ourselves; in any case, there are very few of us left in the Chamber. Before I go any further, I would say to Mrs Frassoni that I, too, am concerned that sustainability should be placed at the heart of the project and that it should, so to speak, be one of the screening criteria for what we want to do. However, I am much more concerned at the unsustainable nature of the present situation. As the Socialist Member, Mr Goebbels, said – I do not know if you heard him, Madam President – in actual fact, our citizens are already playing an enormous price in terms of quality of life and quality of the environment now, precisely because of the situation in our continent of malfunctions, traffic jams, traffic overloads and the impossibility of smooth traffic flow. That said, however, I, too, believe that, at this juncture, we, too, as Parliament, should launch an ‘Operation truth’ if we do not want the Van Miert report to be just another pipe dream or set of low priorities, for when we start to call priorities 10, 20 or 25 projects involving, as we all know, such huge costs, the likelihood is that none of the projects on our list are actually going to be treated as a priority. I am sure Parliament is capable of carrying out this ‘Operation truth’, starting by making people shoulder their responsibilities and by asking ourselves, if we want a European transport policy and if we want a large-scale infrastructure policy, what price we are prepared to pay for this policy and, in particular, which choices we are prepared to make. Otherwise, we will continue to hold virtually useless debates like this and, above all, we will continue to raise the expectations of our citizens and of some of our political leaders too, and it would and will be more damaging to fail to meet those expectations than to fail to implement a project. I therefore feel that, while we are waiting for the Commission and, above all, the Council, to explain to us what the actual possibilities are behind the intentions expressed so clearly by the Italian Presidency at the start of its mandate, we can start to lay down this challenge. If we are to do it, let us get on with it, but we must do it properly and sit down round a table to work out what it is actually possible to achieve. –  Mr President, my compliments, in particular, to Mrs Hermange for her initiative in taking up one of the elements of the new strategy on combating social exclusion and poverty such as illiteracy, which I feel is a genuine barrier to the exercising of fundamental human rights, the rights of all citizens. The idea that functional illiteracy affects over 10% of the European Union’s population is horrifying, to say the least, in a developed society in which Europe is pursuing ambitious goals such as those set by the Lisbon Council: firstly, the need for every citizen to have the necessary skills to be able to live and work in the new information society; and secondly, to make Europe the most competitive, dynamic economy in the world. I feel that we must approach the debate on illiteracy, or rather the problem itself, with great vigour, taking this approach and with these goals before us. The resolution focuses on certain points which I would like to mention briefly: firstly, knowing how to read and write is a fundamental right which must be guaranteed to all people; secondly, combating illiteracy is essential because it secures and strengthens the freedom of the individual; thirdly, the task of combating this disturbing situation must be undertaken by society as a whole and by public authorities and administrations in particular; fourthly, ‘returning’ illiteracy, which particularly affects elderly people, especially those in danger of social exclusion – who, as they lose their self-sufficiency, are obliged to live in sheltered accommodation, leaving their family and socio-cultural environment behind them for good – is a scourge which must be combated. Therefore, governments should promote an incisive initiative through Community programmes, while it is up to you, Commissioner – and, as we know, you are very aware of the problem – to honour the undertaking to address this issue. –  Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Tajani, Mr van Velzen and Mr Poettering for their valuable, substantial contributions to this debate. I also welcome the mandate conferred on me by the European People’s Party to present such a major topic as the poor countries’ debt, which is stifling the economy of the world’s poorest developing countries.  The scale of this issue is global, and it involves all the civilised, democratic countries which are helplessly standing by, watching the constant growth of the debt of poor countries, which now have to set aside an average of 40% of their annual budget to finance it. Every year, the debt increases by approximately 12%, and it has risen from USD 110 billion in the 80s to its present value of USD 350 billion.  Parliament has attempted to deal with the issue on more than one occasion, but it has never appeared to find satisfactory solutions. This year, on account of it being a Jubilee Year, the Holy See and other quarters are calling for the substantial reduction, if not total cancellation, of the international debt in such a way as to facilitate the integration of the most indebted countries into the world production and commercial trade circuit. The UN Secretary-General also fervently appealed, on 3 April last, to the donor countries and international financial institutions to cancel all the official debts of the highly indebted poor countries from their accounts as a millennium gesture.  A similar appeal was made by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, but the time for appeals has passed. It is facts that are important now. If we analyse the situation, we realise that, on the one hand, we are talking about an almost irrecoverable debt and, on the other, that in return for cancelling that debt, we can demand greater respect for human rights, greater democracy and social actions benefiting poor communities – improving conditions for children, the elderly and the disabled. In addition, we would be stemming migration flows, which, quite apart from being a problem for the migrants’ countries of origin, are, above all, a problem for the host countries.  Therefore, I would ask whether the Council is aware of all the initiatives which have hitherto been adopted by each individual country of the Union to reduce or cancel the debt of highly indebted poor countries, and whether it would be possible for a résumé to be produced showing the practical actions which have been undertaken by these countries and the commitments made, to prove that these initiatives are not just mere political vote-winning manoeuvres, as they all too often appear to be. Finally, considering that there is a clear need for a common foreign policy displaying Europe as a coherent system capable of undertaking united initiatives, does the Commission not feel that it would be appropriate to create a structure to study this issue, which would work together with the local Churches, NGOs and civil society and act upon the conclusions reached? This would, I feel, be a different way of interpreting the meaning of the millennium, this time in the name of solidarity between communities. , . –  Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on this proposal for a recommendation, I would like to express my satisfaction at the end document, which was the result of a joint effort by Mr Evans, Mrs Martens and myself. I would especially like to thank Mr Evans and Mr Martens for their fruitful cooperation. During the nineties the Commission produced several recommendations on the issue but no practical solutions were found. I therefore hope that, this time, a solution will be found once and for all, so that mobility throughout the European Union – of students, young persons undergoing training, young volunteers, teachers and trainers – will become one of the crowning glories of the European Union, putting paid to that paradox whereby it is easier for goods, capital or services to move within the European Union than it is for the citizens themselves. The problems to be resolved vary from country to country: for example, regulations differ on matters of social security, study grants, right of residence and taxation, and there is no system for the mutual recognition of qualifications and work placements. Then there is a dearth of information on opportunities for mobility and there is the barrier of the lack of knowledge of languages. I would draw attention, out of the amendments tabled, to the inclusion in this recommendation of the specific category of researchers, since this category was originally included in the Green Paper. I am firmly of the opinion that, rising above the problems of organisation and coordination, which cannot be avoided for they are a result of the reorganisation of the directorates-general of the Commission, it is vital to support and foster research in Europe, for research is a fundamental vector for the growth, international competitiveness and development of the Member States, particularly if we compare the situation with that of the United States and consider the negative implications of mobility problems which are driving young researchers to go to the United States rather than attempt to move within the European Union. This is why the category of researchers should be included, Mr Evans. I therefore call upon the Member States to make every endeavour, alongside the Commission, to resolve the bureaucratic and other problems of mobility, and to set specific goals in the form of a two-yearly action plan and a final report. This is the very minimum necessary if we are to achieve that area of freedom which is the basic right of every European citizen. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this evening we are addressing a subject of considerable importance for all European citizens. We are discussing health and the elderly, and I would say that the health systems of all the European Union Member States are experiencing, albeit to varying degrees, similar situations. In fact, they are already, at this juncture, faced with the fundamental challenge of how, in particular, to control and cover the costs of health care. The ageing of the population, developments in medical technology and rising demand for health care services have led to a significant increase in the costs of health care across the board, which, at times, cannot be sustained by current economies, and in the costs of care for the elderly throughout Europe. Here are some examples: in the European Union, the proportion of the population over the age of 65 will rise from 16.1% in 2000 to 22% in 2025 and 27% in 2050, that is a third of the population. At the same time people over the age of 80, who made up 3.6% of the population in 2000 are likely to make up 6% in 2025 and 10% in 2050. Although the provision of health care and care for the elderly remains essentially the responsibility of the Member States, we realise that this trend, owing to the significant and complex implications, cannot find an effective response at exclusively national level. These problems must be included in the context of broader European cooperation so that we can achieve successful results, as set out by the principles and goals of the Community action programme in the field of public health and the specific objectives established by the United Nations Plan of Action. In order to meet these objectives, the cooperation of all health care professionals is required. There needs to be greater cooperation in the exchange of information and best practice, research, the establishment of a data bank covering the social and health care sector containing statistical analyses and projections, and the definition of common qualitative and quantitative standards, which will establish health indicators and formulate common standards to monitor the health services. In March 2002, the Barcelona European Council also stressed the need to launch and develop cooperation between Member States in this sector, through exchanges of best practice and information and discussion of the common challenges facing them at European level. The European Union has already affirmed on various occasions the need to draw up a global strategy covering the economic, employment and social implications of an ageing population, by harnessing the full potential of people of all ages and strengthening solidarity between generations. The safeguarding and further improvement of high quality social protection and health care provision in the Member States, based on the principle of solidarity and accessibility to healthcare for all concerned, will be necessary in order to fully attain the goals of financial viability, accessibility and quality. All this should, in the future, also lead to the creation of an internal market in health services and products: an internal market not treated in the same way as a commercial product and subject to its rules, but a product subject to the rules on quality and accessibility for all, and I am saying this in particular for Mrs Jöns, who has contributed a great deal and whom I would like to thank for her work on this report. Another key aspect to take into account is the risk of overemphasising the importance of the goal of financial viability at the expense of accessibility and quality. Solutions should be defined at the earliest opportunity: there need to be awareness-raising and information campaigns, specific analyses and research, programmes to fund training projects and refresher courses for medical, nursing and care staff, as Mr Mussa also suggested. Lastly, more attention needs to be paid to certain aspects of developing health care and social services for the elderly, especially for those who are not self-sufficient, who constitute the main, most important problem, such as the treatment of mental illnesses affecting the elderly, preserving peoples’ autonomy, integration, access to rehabilitation and readjustment services, prevention, assistance and support for families caring for elderly people and combating maltreatment and neglect. Yesterday, the Commission sounded the umpteenth alarm, seeking to make us the most competitive economy in the world by 2010: precisely what was determined in Lisbon three years ago, owing to slow growth. Well, the thorny question of ageing of the population is important in this context. Therefore, in the hope that we shall soon see the European Parliament participating more actively in drawing up the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines and health policy guidelines, I would call on the Commission and the Council to take into consideration the decisions contained in this report when preparing the joint synthesis report for the Spring 2003 European Council, and also the European Convention, which should include a high level of health protection as a general goal. I believe that having a ‘Social Europe’ is the only way that we will move from being a Europe of banks and money to a Europe of people and peoples. –  Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Cashman, Mrs Lynne and Mr Thomas Mann, and congratulate them on their work on the reports on the anti-discrimination programme and equal treatment in employment and working conditions. As shadow rapporteur for the European People's Party in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I welcomed the Council's decision to establish a Community Action Plan to fight discrimination. I feel that the great step taken towards consolidating the new powers conferred by Article 13 of the Treaty establishing the European Community in order to fight this very phenomenon of discrimination is satisfactory. In general terms, I agree with the emphasis placed on the development and growth of cultural tools to fight discrimination: in my opinion, we must combat discrimination with a culture of non-discrimination, making up-to-the-minute, accessible information available to all the citizens of all the Member States. In fact, information and awareness campaigns are vital in this area: they must act as hammers to forge new mentalities and bring about a new way of thinking and behaving, in order to drive out those prejudices which are still widespread and to ensure equal rights for all citizens. However, I consider that the overall funds allocated to this programme are inadequate and I call, in particular, upon the Commissioner to secure an increase in funding. The amount should be at least equal to the sums made available for the preparations for this programme, to make it possible to implement it fully and effectively. I would remind you of the additional cost of implementing the programme in respect of the more vulnerable categories such as the elderly, people with varying abilitiesand the older unemployed. These categories represent 25% of the Union's population. This is a potential which must not be underestimated and the integration of these categories could prove beneficial to the economy as well. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Caudron. I believe that this report is the result of his excellent work carried out as rapporteur on the Sixth Framework Programme for research and technological development, to which, moreover, I contributed as draftsman for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs at its initial stage. The partnership which we are establishing by applying Article 169, is an innovation, apparently without precedent, and we therefore warmly welcome it: it is a genuine, tangible contribution to the fight against poverty diseases, a fight in which the European Union has shouldered its responsibilities by taking up its position on the front line, as the leading world donor. The allocated budget – EUR 600 million – is in addition to the series of initiatives implemented since Durban which aim to strengthen and make more effective the fight against these diseases which chiefly affect developing countries: I will mention only the Global Fund, set up at the Genoa G8 summit, and the European Community action programme. This continuity is certainly a very positive signal, but we increasingly need to do more: five people die of AIDS in Africa every minute; in 2001 malaria and tuberculosis killed one million and two million victims respectively; in short, these three diseases are, in fact, holding back the development of the affected countries and are playing their part in keeping them in poverty. This is why it is necessary, or rather essential, to invest and concentrate all the efforts necessary to obtain a systematic response from the whole of the international community. This coordinated cooperation between the Member States, the European Union and the private sector, which is using a new, coordinated approach for a long-term Community strategy in the fight against these three diseases, has the considerable merit of actively involving the developing countries themselves, enabling real improvements to be made. Therefore, in order for this involvement to be effective and efficient, it is essential that it takes place with the maximum transparency, so that the efforts and resources deployed are tangible. –  Mr President, I would, of course, like to congratulate the rapporteur on the initiative and conviction with which she has drawn up this report. Moreover, the first joint report on social inclusion, drawn up on the basis of national action plans combating poverty and social exclusion, highlighted the need for a joint analysis of the different situations in the European Union. In this regard, the national plans identify a number of risk factors which combine to underscore the multidimensional importance of the issue, and, in some cases, these factors are consequences as well as causes, which highlights the need to break the cycle of ongoing and intergenerational poverty represented bysocial exclusion. Lastly, as happened at the Luxembourg Summit with regard to employment, a similar process of open cooperation and coordination to reach the objectives is starting in the area of social exclusion. Therefore, in order to contain and resolve the issue of social exclusion, specific actions have been proposed based on the four specific Nice objectives, which include the action to help the vulnerable, people with disabilities and elderly people who are not self-sufficient. It is important that these objectives are met, not so that we can give gold stars tothe different European States but so that genuine added value for the basic objective of social integration can be achieved. –  Mr President, every time we discuss the issue of the poor countries, out comes the usual catalogue of figures: 800 million people suffering from malnutrition; 40% of the world’s population suffering from malaria; 2 million people contracting aids each year in Africa alone; almost a billion children who cannot read or write; water shortages; health and social problems and so on and so forth. It has become almost a customary ritual to trundle out these data each time. However, Mr President, we need to take action. There is an urgent need for more practical measures from industrialised countries and international financial institutions, not least through more effective cooperation, without duplication or overlapping of effort. That means more careful monitoring of the allocation of development funds. In other words, we need practical measures implemented with the greatest transparency and with the minimum bureaucracy necessary for the monitoring process. Of course, the March 2002 International Conference at Monterrey and the Johannesburg world summit to be held subsequently this September will be extremely important in this respect. Their success would certainly be a clear signal for further, more general acceleration of measures boosting sustainable development. Key areas for action include mustering local financial resources for development and international resources, including countries in international trading and so on. The European Union is certainly the main donor but, together with the individual States, it has a key role to play in this respect. We need closer cooperation with United Nations organisations such as the FAO in order to ensure that the allocation of these funds genuinely serves to improve the levels of nourishment and living conditions of poor peoples. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are now approaching the end of the European Year of People with Disabilities, which is to be concluded in Rome on 5 December 2003 under the Italian Presidency, and it was the President-in-Office of the European Union himself, who, in his speech at the start of his six-month term of office, made what I consider to be a powerful, historic gesture where social policies relating to people with disabilities are concerned. He explicitly stated that the Union Presidency would take steps to lay the foundations for legislative measures to combat discrimination, producing, in practice, a directive protecting the independence and equal rights of millions of people with disabilities in all aspects of daily life in the new Europe, giving them genuine hope for the future. However, to date, the Commission has neither provided a timetable for a future horizontal directive on the rights of people with disabilities, covering not just work but all aspects of life too, nor even given specific undertakings to integrate the rights of people with disabilities into policy, as confirmed in the recent communication, which would seem, rather, to be no more than the announcement of good intentions. Indeed, it is not clear how the objective of boosting equal opportunities is to be achieved if such opportunities are only available in certain aspects of life such as work. Here are some examples: with the directive on employment, the Commission’s aim is to achieve full employment of people with disabilities, which would be a step towards eliminating discrimination. This is all well and good, but how is a person to penetrate the labour market nowadays and work towards getting a worthwhile, high-quality job if people with disabilities are not provided with adequate teaching, education and training, for instance? Integration starts early on, as you can see; indeed, it has to start at school. People with disabilities are not divided into sectors or compartments of inactivity, they are girls and boys, men and women who are entitled to full integration, not integration in some areas: thousands of children with disabilities in Europe still live in institutes rather than with their families, for example. The coordination method could come to our aid here too, but there is too little mention of it in the communication. Lastly, I would say that the European Year is certainly closing with quite a positive result as regards the goals set of raising awareness of disability issues. I feel that what was lacking was a specific, effective measure from the Commission, which did not act diligently on the strong, firm pressure from Parliament or the calls from the Council Presidency. I will end by calling on President Prodi, if Mrs Diamantopoulou will relay the message, to be, perhaps, a little more active and more diligent, even though the Commission is at the end of its term of office, as regards an issue, the issue of disability, which is of such great importance in human, social and cultural terms. . –  Mr President, the European Commission is proposing an appropriation of EUR 17 billion, fully recognising the importance of research and technological innovation in Europe. Unfortunately, research projects today often do not achieve the hoped-for success which would allow them to compete at an international level, and the European Union does not hold enough attraction to lure back the top researchers who have chosen to work abroad. The new scheme should bring in some changes: firstly, concentrate financial aid on a restricted, specific number of priority subjects for Europe; secondly, invite researchers to collaborate more closely; and thirdly, increase the mobility of researchers by creating a working environment in Europe that is attractive to them. These priorities form the framework for the 42 amendments tabled by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, many of which have been incorporated, for which I thank the rapporteur and the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, which is competent in this matter. These amendments concern employment, health and safety at work, access to work for the disabled, small and medium-sized enterprises and European Community research centres. With regard to employment, we have seen an amendment adopted which seeks to extend research to the development of operating systems and computer hardware in Europe in order to increase employment and stop us from being so heavily dependent on the United States and Japan in this area. This is a key sector for the new economy and would entail considerable risks for the sake of economic and employment growth. Then we asked for action in the field of health and safety at work, in order to encourage access for the socially excluded and disadvantaged, such as people with disabilities. Research support for small and medium-sized enterprises has also been accepted with very favourable terms, it has gone up from 15 to 30 %, and the same may be said of support for JRCs, which are to receive EUR 725 million. In conclusion, Mr President, I must move in favour of approval, since science and research are there to serve the people, for that right to life that no one is entitled to jeopardise. –  Mr President, the specific programmes for implementing the Sixth Framework Programme deal with each thematic priority in detail, clarifying their content and certainly making them more effective. They will make substantial changes contributing to the success of the whole programme in that they are based on the focusing of financial aid on a restricted, specific number of priority themes throughout Europe. This will give researchers a closer system of cooperation and will increase their mobility, for the aim is to create an attractive working environment for them in Europe too. As regards the employment rules, the Sixth Framework Programme, on which work began over a year ago and to which the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has contributed, has preserved the very themes highlighted by our committee as well among the priorities, particularly employment, health and safety at the work place and the integration of the socially excluded and disadvantaged such as people with disabilities. Indeed, we must not forget that the whole point of research is to serve the people: it is not an end in itself. In addition, particular stress has been placed on support and research for small and medium-sized businesses, precisely because of their function of an economic catalyst in Europe. Moreover, the restructuring of the Common Research Centre has made it more efficient and the confirmation of the budget is an important step towards the creation of a European Research Area. Lastly, I am pleased to welcome the inclusion of an amendment tabled last June on employment in Europe. Our request that research should be extended to the development of operating systems and hardware in Europe has been included in the specific programme aimed at integrating and strengthening the European Research Area. That will certainly help to boost employment and put the brakes on our current growing dependence on the United States and Japan in what is considered to be a crucial sector for the new economy. –  Mr President, at the recent World Food Summit held in Rome, 182 nations renewed their commitment to putting an end to the tragedy of hunger in the world, in which there are still 800 million people who are malnourished. Sadly, five years on from the first summit in 1996, we have to acknowledge that we have clearly failed in our aim of halving this figure by 2015. It is imperative that this discrepancy between promises and reality is overcome. The need to combat this tragedy is also reinforced by the thought that hunger is both a cause and an effect of poverty. A starving man is not a free man: he is a desperate man and can easily be persuaded to take part in desperate actions such as conflicts, international crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, illegal immigration and terrorism. There is no doubt that the western world needs to pay much greater attention to this, and the commitment by the industrialised countries to donate 0.7% of their gross domestic product is more relevant now than ever. It was John F. Kennedy who said that no one can be considered rich if their neighbours are poor. That is why we need practical action and projects. We have to act immediately to prevent a further 2 billion people joining the 4 billion who are currently cut off from wealth, as the demographic studies forecast. Good governance in these developing countries is, however, an essential prerequisite if the cooperation which is vital for the achievement of the objectives we have set is to be strengthened. Access to information, as the Italian Prime Minister, Mr Berlusconi, has proposed, rather than failure to deliver on undertakings, as Mr Rod has observed, and the new model of digital state organisation to combat corruption and increase efficiency would certainly make any use of development aid more transparent. Another matter that urgently needs addressing through a conference of FAO countries is that of the proper operation of the agency itself. The way it works and is managed needs to be reformed and rationalised in order to improve its transparency and efficiency and to achieve more suitable actions and results. At Johannesburg, I will have the opportunity, together with the delegation from the European Parliament, to see whether the European Union will really be able to give – and make others give – tangible political commitments with precise deadlines, the achievement of which will have to be based on effective partnership. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my compliments to Mr Wijkman for his excellent report and its tangible contribution to the fight against poverty-related diseases, a report, moreover, adopted by the unanimous vote of the Committee on Development and Cooperation. This is further confirmation of the need to speed up the adoption, which seems to be possible at first reading already, of this proposal for a regulation so that it can be swiftly implemented, in line with the European Union’s responsibilities to developing countries. This is certainly a substantial contribution – albeit not to a large enough degree – to the recently constituted Global Fund to Fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, a fund strongly called for by the Italian Prime Minister too during the G8 Summit in Genoa and – I would add – which was made available in record time compared with the time which these things usually take. I am afraid, however, that the situation is still alarming and there is no time to lose: we still can and must do much more. I will not tire of repeating, once again, that we need a coordinated approach between policies on development cooperation, research and health in the fight against these diseases, including through developing third countries’ health systems. Everyone is aware of the facts, and among these I would highlight this one: each day, between 12 and 14 thousand people contract the AIDS virus throughout the world. As Mr Deva rightly said, this is a disease which has now also arrived on our doorstep: just think of the thousands of children in Romania who have contracted this virus. Therefore, although this is a global problem, it nevertheless affects developing countries in particular. So while the budget represents the main obstacle to the adoption of this proposal for a regulation as amended, I would like briefly to consider a key element: the issue of drugs, their cost and access to treatment and medicines. How can it be that, even now, only 10% of both public and private research is dedicated to studying these diseases which are responsible for a good 90% of disease in developing populations? I wonder what became of my request, which I submitted along with Mr Tajani more than two years ago, which called in this very forum for the urgent drafting of a common plan, in conjunction with the pharmaceutical manufacturers, that focused more on combating poverty diseases. Given the scale and cross-border nature of the phenomenon – now on our doorstep – these poverty diseases call for a systematic response from the whole international community. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Hermange on her work on achieving a barrier-free Europe for people with disabilities. I believe it is necessary to complete the strategy for integrating the rights of people with disabilities into Community policies, particularly the transport sector, access to buildings, the information society and consumer policy. However, I am convinced that the issue of practically integrating people with disabilities will depend not only on traditional obstacles, such as the physical barriers enclosing public areas and transport, being overcome, but, above all, on the general public taking a new approach to the everyday situation of people with disabilities. It is clear that, in these cases, psychological factors and people's prejudices may be much greater obstacles than those created by physical barriers. Another important point to stress, which also featured in the Stockholm Presidency Conclusions, is that of the integration of people with disabilities into the world of work. We must work towards a situation where companies employ more than the obligatory number of people with disabilities, making things easier for companies by consistently reducing or abolishing both the contribution and tax burdens. This would have the positive effect of using this social potential, which is currently only partially exploited, and would benefit the entire economy. Currently, 37 million European citizens suffer from some form of disability and the unemployment rate for this category is over three times higher than average. Moreover, let us not forget that the quest to achieve full employment in the Union does not mean concentrating solely on job creation but involves providing better jobs for all people, including those with disabilities. Lastly, I consider it essential for research in Europe to play a fundamental role, through its centres, in the development of technologies intended to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. In this way, we would be able to close the gap between Europe and the United States of America. Finally, may I emphasise the role that the Member States must play in improving the skills and promoting the specific professional training of people who cooperate within voluntary associations and the social cooperatives, in order to provide adequate professional training which is suited to the different forms of disabilities. –  Madam President, I too congratulate Mr Vidal-Quadras on his report on the decommissioning of nuclear installations and waste management. However, it has to be said that the current situation of the Joint Research Centres, particularly the situation of the Ispra site, is the result of a past policy which did not take the problem of the disposal of nuclear waste into due account. The issue of the safe disposal of the waste is, to say the least, worrying. We need a specific and – in my opinion – short or medium-term project to promote the safety of the citizens who live in those territories and the surrounding environment.  It might be useful, in this regard, to capitalise on the experiences of the other countries of the Union, for example, England, Germany and France, where, although the disposal issue has not been completely resolved, it has been targeted for some time now. In a country such as Italy, in particular, where there is no specific legislation, we will have to rely on the abilities of the Ispra research scientists for the disposal of radioactive waste from that site.  I tabled two questions on the Ispra issue but I did not receive satisfactory responses. I, too, call for the 1998 Commission internal audit report to be made public so that a comprehensive, exhaustive assessment of the issue can be made. I feel that there is a need for Parliament’s voice of democracy to be genuinely heeded in this case, so that we can guarantee to the local communities that they will not be in any danger. . –  Madam President, I would like to thank the Members for their valuable contribution to the development of this report, and I would also like to thank Commissioner Nielson for the opportunity to work on the issue; although he is not in the Chamber today, he was very hospitable towards Mr Tajani and myself precisely with a view to discussing this problem which is holding many countries of our world in a vice. In order to give fresh impetus to the international consensus regarding debt reduction and to respond to the international community’s growing concerns regarding the increasing marginalisation of the least-developed countries within the world economy, the Commission is now, with this communication, proposing full cancellation of the debts linked to any of the special loans granted to the least-developed ACP countries under the first three Lomé Conventions which are still outstanding following the introduction of debt-relief measures under the HIPC initiative launched in 1996. This is a brief overview of the situation. The problem of external debt and the ability to service the interest payable on that debt continues to be one of the basic constraints on economic development in the poor countries. These countries – most of which are located in Africa – allocate on average 40% of their annual budgets to debt servicing, which reduces their investment capacity and therefore their ability to offer their people basic social services such as healthcare and education. Paradoxically, the development aid provided by the EU and its Member States to the world's poorest countries is sometimes not even sufficient to cover the cost of servicing their external debt. In addition, the global economic slowdown is deepening as a result of the events of September 11 2001, exacerbating the already severe problems of these communities. Here are some figures: the debt of the HIPCs increased from USD 147 billion in 1989 to USD 214 billion in 2001; at present, 41 of the world’s poorest countries are in a situation of bankruptcy and 300 out of every 600 HIPC citizens survive on less than a dollar per day. I will spare you the details of the lives of these people, suffering from illnesses such as AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, of which, moreover, there is currently an upsurge, or of the situation, in particular, of children, people with disabilities or sick people, seeing as there are no elderly people to speak of in these countries. Twenty-six countries have become eligible for debt relief now, having reached what is known as the decision point, and can now benefit directly from the cut in debt servicing, but to officially exploit this relief, reaching the completion point – which has currently only been reached by four countries, moreover – they must implement a pre-established package of social and structural reforms and maintain sound macroeconomic performance. It is strange, however, that no deadline has been set for them to reach this completion point, although the average time frame should be at least 15 months in practice. Moreover, such a short time period gives the highly indebted countries little time to develop multisectoral strategies for combating poverty and forces local governments to spend money and funds on reaching the completion point rather than on implementing a sustainable programme and a credible plan for combating poverty. In general, however, we can say that the enhanced HIPC initiative is still, on its own, wholly inadequate to resolve the issue in the current context of economic globalisation, even though it acknowledges the failure of earlier programmes and initiatives based on macroeconomic strategies, for it does not, in actual fact, decrease the nominal debt of the HIPCs. If the size of the debt is not radically reduced, these countries will be condemned to repaying it forever and ever. Now, the European Parliament and the Commission, in particular, have firmly upheld the need to cancel this debt, not least in the wake of the Jubilee 2000 campaign in which a range of different political, civil and religious organisations and movements – led by the Holy See – vehemently demanded the complete cancellation of the debt. In particular, I feel that it is important to emphasise the involvement of the Holy Father, who, during the Jubilee year, which was a year of charity, called for greater, more effective focus on the problems of poverty which are still afflicting the world. As regards Monterrey, although it was criticised as the umpteenth display of mere grand declarations on the part of the wealthy countries, I feel that it should still be seen as a positive development for it led to an increase in practical goals. Evidence of this is, in fact, the Union’s commitment to providing a further USD 20 billion dollars of aid by 2006 and USD 7 billion dollars after 2006. To sum up, Madam President, I feel that there are a number of initiatives that can help these countries, not least the use of new technologies, as discussed at Palermo just a few weeks ago on the initiative of the Italian Government, the World Bank and the UN: applying new technologies to debt management systems, including national debt management systems, and budget monitoring, which would certainly help public administrations to give us clear, practical indications of the target to be set and deal with the concern which is holding us back, which is these countries’ arms purchases and their failure to transfer benefits and use them to fund the social and economic poverty reduction initiatives and, of course, the social and healthcare projects which, on the other hand, these countries do need. –  Madam President, as a member of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I would like to express my distress at the outcome of the 13th Aids Conference in Durban, South Africa, which is at the very least alarming, and my deep concern for the future of the developing countries, particularly the African countries. This new resolution supplements the resolutions tabled last year in Lusaka, Zambia. However, sadly, the situation is tragic and has shown no improvement at all recently. On the contrary, it is assuming huge proportions if we consider that, in Africa, five people die of Aids every minute. The statistics presented by the experts are tragic, including the substantial population decline and the dramatic decrease in life expectancy in Africa, which will fall below the age of 45 by the year 2015. In the sub-Saharan area, as many as 10% of the population will be affected by the virus. I therefore feel that there is a need for the Commission and the Member States of the Union to make an  intervention, in consideration of the European Union's major responsibility precisely towards developing countries. Indeed, I would argue that we should relate the cancellation of the external debt of the poor countries to the fight against the Aids epidemic, and it is precisely with a view to this that we support the request of the specific programme  contained in the resolution. The Cairo EU-Africa Summit on debt cancellation procedures and the Durban Conference are, in fact, closely related. The grievous impact of Aids on economic growth and the close relationship between the fight against poverty and the fight against Aids requires coordination and closer and more effective cooperation between the WHO, the World Bank and the United Nations, with the involvement of the civil society of the countries concerned, the local Churches and the non-governmental organisations. –  Mr President, I would say that the outcome of the Johannesburg Earth Summit has been neither positive nor negative. It may suffice to say that it was a necessary, useful meeting, although the optimism of Rio, 10 years ago, has given way to a certain diffidence with regard to the time frames and to the goals to be achieved. The endorsement of both a Plan of Implementation – focusing, , on poverty reduction, health, technology transfer and trade – and the political declaration setting forth an international commitment to work together to improve the use and distribution of natural and energy resources provides an ambitious goal for both developed and developing countries in terms of restoring the balance in North-South relations in the world and achieving sustainability of development and progress policies. I do, however, hope that the conference was more than just a parade of Heads of State or Government and that it made clear the need for issues related to sustainable development to be given a central place in the international political agenda. Johannesburg revealed precisely the need for supranational governance which can tackle the world’s many environmental, economic and social issues, focusing particularly on the poor and developing countries. The poor and developing countries’ debt is, without a doubt, a key issue too, impacting considerably on the success of the strategy for medium- and long-term sustainable development. In this regard, the issue of transparency, to be achieved through the computerisation of the budgets of the developing countries, is an essential condition if we are to continue along the path of cancelling past debts. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Lynne, for her excellent report, which was, moreover, adopted unanimously in the Parliamentary committee: a report which is evidence of her particular sensitivity and experience, not least as rapporteur of the document launching the European Year of People with Disabilities 2003. The unanimous vote in committee also serves to prove that disability is not a left- or right-wing issue, but an issue promoted by those who care about respect for the rights, equal opportunities and dignity of all citizens. Moreover, the figures are no joking matter: there are 600 million people with disabilities in the world, 38 million of which live in Europe, and there will be 45 million in the enlarged Europe next year. It should be pointed out that anyone can become disabled at any point in life. It happens, in particular, as a result of the ageing of society, but that is not the only cause: consider – and I am quoting a figure relating to Italy – the 24 000 young people who become disabled each year as a result of accidents caused by the frenetic approach to life and social activity today. These are figures which give cause for thought. Hence the importance of establishing binding international standards seeking to protect the rights of people with disabilities with an appropriate built-in monitoring mechanism. The binding UN Convention adopted last June, which has just such a monitoring mechanism, like the six human rights conventions, will have to bring to light the considerable, widespread problems encountered by people with disabilities in their everyday lives, whether in terms of access or bureaucracy or social attitudes. It will therefore form the basis for the rights of all people with disabilities throughout the world. I therefore trust that the European Presidency too, the Council in its role of negotiator, will make every endeavour to achieve a better-defined, more specific text in early 2004 than that presented in Mexico, in order to define practical standards to guide the approach of governments. However, I regret the position adopted thus far by the European Commission, which has not yet provided a timetable for a future horizontal directive on the rights of people with disabilities in Europe and has not given specific or genuine undertakings to incorporate the rights of people with disabilities into its policies. The directive on employment and occupation is important, as is the directive on access to transport, but we need to go further, Commissioner. In particular, we cannot let the different countries get away with inertia as regards their legislation. –  Madam President, it is with pleasure that I am standing in for Mr Andria, who is absent for personal reasons, in a debate on a subject which I consider to be extremely important, for, having taken part in the Johannesburg Earth Summit, I have realised that there is great social divide between the Mercorsur countries. The social and economic crises constantly afflicting these countries are preventing economic growth in South America and hindering the implementation of a sustainable development programme because of the frequent economic problems caused by structural instability. I therefore firmly believe that the European Union must place South America and the Mercosur countries at the centre of its focus, although not to the detriment of the environmental protection policy, of course, which is becoming an essential tool for the preservation of green areas which are part of the world’s heritage. To this end, the creation of a special trade programme for countries in difficulties and the promotion of agreements with international bodies which can successfully reduce the crisis threatening the stability of the entire continent would seem appropriate. In my view, we need to review the trade agreements we have with these countries and relations between Europe and Mercosur. The barriers to trade, the constraints on trade between the European Union and South America, need to be removed in order to boost the world’s economy, which is under threat from these crises. We must not forget that Europe is the principal trading partner of the Mercosur countries, and it would be easier for these countries to recover and to resolve their socio-political problems if they were economically stable and opened up to trade. We need to renegotiate the external debt and establish a system of equality between the different Mercosur countries in order to protect fundamental human rights and prevent the emergence of socio-cultural problems such as those currently afflicting the continent. –  Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Pack, on this report, which was adopted unanimously in committee. Indeed, we would like to take this opportunity to stress how important the initiatives and displays linked to the European Year of Education Through Sport will be, taking place as they will be in 2004, the year when the European Championship, the Athens Olympic Games and the Paralympic Games will all be held as well. It will also be an important year in terms of the Winter Olympics, which will be held subsequently in 2006 in Turin. A year or so ago, Commissioner Reding announced this event here in Strasbourg, stressing precisely the wider impact of sport, a dimension which is not just linked to its purely economic role but also – and, I would add, in particular – contains social and cultural added value for European society as a whole. However, there are still great disparities in the world of sport and we must therefore focus in particular on the small sports clubs andsupport their efforts in training young people. You will also remember, Commissioner, the meeting I had with you on football transfers in Europe, on which occasion I suggested creating a European Sports Agency. I feel that this is still a very relevant project, although it must first be included in the Community Treaties on the basis of the declaration on the specific characteristics of sport made by the Fifteen at Nice in December 2000. Indeed, I feel that such a body would aid the dissemination and promotion of healthy sporting activity and a European-level sporting culture while, at the same time, encouraging cooperation between sporting bodies to combat violence, discrimination, racism and even doping. The European Year of Education Through Sport will therefore be an extremely important event and we are ready to give it our full attention. –  Mr President, first of all, I too congratulate Mrs Figueireido on her work, which was approved unanimously, moreover, in committee, and on the innovative nature of her report on the establishment of a Community programme to combat social exclusion. I therefore support the rapporteur in stressing that the programme, or rather the programme's role, will facilitate greater social cohesion where the poor and the marginalised are concerned. As is stated in the amendments which I tabled in committee and which were subsequently adopted, I am convinced that an effective, practical fight against poverty must take place according to a timetable of events and targets. In fact, a programme with in-built deadlines and checks is easier to assess in terms of quantity and quality. It must be taken into consideration that over 65 million people in the European Union – 7.5 million of which live in my country, Italy – live on a low income, and a low income in Italy, Commissioner, means a family living on an income of EUR 750. These figures suggest that the budget made available for the programme will be totally insufficient. I therefore call for it to be increased. Mr President, I will end by stressing once again that mutual support between States must be the reference point upon which we base a fresh fight against poverty and social exclusion, but we must take into account the fact that the economic progress of the Member States, and therefore an improvement in their welfare due to the implementation of a social economy of scale, will certainly facilitate the achievement of a greater, better system of social justice. –  Madam President, Commissioners, I welcomed the conclusion of the agreement on the transfer of footballers with great satisfaction. The terms of the agreement appear to be positive. It was certainly a matter that needed regulating. In particular, I welcome the fact that the Commission has succeeded in emphasising the aspects related to solidarity towards small sports clubs as well in an agreement which is economic and legislative in nature, valuing their enormous dedication to training young people. I would also like to thank Commissioner Reding and Commissioner Monti, who, this very morning, together with the Italian sports writers' association and the supporters' association, allowed me to put forward the idea of establishing a European sports committee and maybe subsequently a European sports agency, which would have the task of promoting healthy sporting activity and dealing at European level with different issues related to culture, education, the free movement of persons, non-discrimination and the fight against violence, racism and doping. To sum up, we have set off along the right road but we must tread the path resolutely, as, I am sure, Commissioner Reding will do. So what will the next the stage be? –  Madam President, rapporteurs, thank you for your excellent work. I would like to thank Commissioner Nielson too, who is always sensitive to issues concerning developing countries. The world summit due to take place in less than four months’ time in Johannesburg in South Africa is certainly an opportunity for the entire international community to give practical effect to its efforts and keep its promises in the field of sustainable development. Although considerable progress has been made in a number of areas in recent years, I am afraid that a great deal still remains to be done. Addressing and attempting to provide a credible, sustainable response now to the issues which can no longer be put off – such as combating poverty, including the fundamental question of the debt which we debated during the last part-session in Brussels too, the huge social and health problems afflicting the poorest countries of the globe and, last but certainly not least, environmental protection, trade and access to international markets – would be a clear, coherent signal which the European Union itself, as the principal donor of aid, should be the first to give, in line with its recent undertaking to increase development aid by USD 20 billion by 2006 and by a further USD 7 billion from the year 2006 onwards. On the other hand, it will be essential for the beneficiary countries to really get down to work with genuine development policies in the context of a regional integration process. Indeed, a unilateral approach not bound by a practical commitment on the part of the governments and the local authorities with adequate management and sound internal policies would serve little purpose. The first positive signs which, despite everything, give us hope are the undertakings given at Barcelona – and, before that, at Laeken, Gothenburg and the G8 Summit in Genoa – to work towards providing the planned 0.7% of GDP in aid to the developing countries. This is a positive trend: we need an intermediate goal, which is what the level of 0.39% of Member States’ GDP is, to help us reach our objective as soon as possible. In other words, I feel that, with reasonable deadlines and a precise timetable, we will succeed in halving poverty by 2015. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the World Assembly on Ageing organised by the Spanish Presidency, which is taking place 20 years on from the first conference on the subject, is certainly a unique opportunity for the entire world, not just the developed countries, to be able to focus on the extremely important and no less topical subject of the ageing population, which is the result of the new demographic trend, and the increase in average life expectancy, which is due, not least, to the progress made in medical science. I hope that, when the economic, social and health consequences of the increase in average life expectancy and the ageing population are discussed and analysed, the emphasis will not just be on the role that elderly people must be able to play in modern society today but also on the right, for example, of each elderly person who loses their independence to continue to enjoy a guaranteed quality of life. We need all the States of the European Union to focus once again, more intently, on promoting the active involvement of elderly people in social and cultural life. Indeed, it would be very valuable for our society to aim at adopting that approach, for it must treat the elderly person not just as a potential user of services but as a person who is still useful to society as a whole too. I warmly welcome the new Community programme that the Commission is preparing to launch in the second half of the year – not least because the Commission has not done a great deal on this matter thus far – in an attempt to remedy a situation which the Commission itself has described as disturbing in terms of the preservation of the quality of life of elderly people. In other words, there needs to be an effective, coordinated action at European level if we are to address the issue of ageing, which is both a challenge and, at the same time, an emergency, a burden on the future of all the European States, particularly my country, Italy, where Genoa holds the record for the city with the greatest proportion of elderly people in the entire Union. –  Mr President, my compliments to the rapporteur for her work on protecting women during pregnancy and maternity, a particularly difficult time. This report certainly represents progress, not just for women in general but also in that it safeguards family rights and upholds fundamental values. The European People's Party has always upheld the concept of the family, the basic unit of society, as the basis for European construction and the Christian values from which it stems require that it be respected. At a time when Europe has demographic problems, the institutions need to issue a firm signal to reassure working women, who have to have sufficient peace of mind and the necessary guarantees to be able to opt for motherhood. This is why it is necessary to have a sufficiently long period of rest from work before giving birth and even longer afterwards, when there is a child to breastfeed, look after and bring up. Therefore, benefits should not be cut considerably during this period and pension funds should not be affected either. I would add that, as regards the matter in question, self-employed women should also have a guaranteed right to benefits, which should be funded from contributory national sectoral funds. Finally, I would like to express my support for maintaining the prohibition on dismissal of women during this period, and also for the fact that the cost of benefits for workers on maternity leave are not borne directly by the company where the woman works but entirely by the State, in order to avoid discrimination and penalising women in the labour market. –  Thank you very much, Mr President, for allowing me to speak. This is my maiden speech in this Chamber.   I, too, welcome the initiative of a first EU-Africa summit. The need for it has been felt and discussed for nigh on 50 years. However, as a member of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I must express my reservations at the lack of support from the European Parliament. I also condemn the fact that Agenda 2000 did not tackle the issue of the future responsibilities of the European Union towards developing countries. There are two sides to the issue: the request from Europe for African countries to respect human rights, good governance and democratic institutions, and the appeal, loud and clear, from the African countries for the cancellation of their debt, which is seen as responsible for stifling the development, economic growth and welfare of the communities.  A balance has to be found, and some common ground. Parliament has tried to tackle this issue several times in the past, apparently without ever achieving tangible results. We need a powerful, sincere, widespread initiative; there are calls from several different quarters, including the Holy See during this Jubilee year, for a substantial reduction, if not the total cancellation of the third world debt, by such means as to facilitate the inclusion of the most heavily indebted countries in the world production and trade circuit. In my view, we need to set up a structure to analyse the situations of the various different countries and assess their political situations, in order to establish by how much to reduce their debts or whether to cancel them. This would take into consideration the extent to which past financial aid has been put to good use, and therefore involve the governments, civil society, local churches and non-governmental organisations. –  Mr President, our hope is that the European Union, through the Council, the Commission and Parliament, will play a leading role at the Johannesburg World Summit, which is to assess the progress made in implementing Agenda 21, considering that sustainable development and combating poverty are indisputably two priority objectives. As the leading donor of aid, the European Community must take this opportunity to play its rightful guiding role on the international stage – in the absence of the United States – contributing along with the other international institutions to the success of this event. However, its success will depend largely on achievable objectives being set. The recent undertaking to increase development aid will certainly be an important signal for the summit, but it is essential to establish a precise calendar and achievable deadlines without delay, together with an action plan which is realistic as well as ambitious. It will be crucial, for instance, to proceed along the path of debt cancellation, with due regard for human rights and the principles of good government, encouraging actions such as the adoption by the poor countries of a digitalised computerised complimentaryaccounting model which will make their accounts transparent and reassure the European taxpayer. The FAO Summit which opened in Rome yesterday in witness to the renewed commitment towards and interest in the problems affecting the southern hemisphere paints a discouragingpicture, an on-going holocaust: someone dies every four seconds. In 2030, when there will be 8 billion people, it will make a difference whether we have turned words into actions. –  Mr President, the oral amendment consists of a social measure. In paragraph 14, letter s, where it refers to attention to the care needs of those in rural communities, I would add ‘‘and mountain communities’’. This is also in honour of the International Year of Mountains and the many mountains we have in Europe. –  Madam President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Bastos on this exhaustive report on a subject – mobility – which is so important, so crucial for a Europe which is hoping to achieve greater competitiveness through the creation of new, higher-quality jobs. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Commission’s Action Plan, which contains practical measures for creating a more favourable environment for the European labour market by 2005, making it more open and accessible for all. I am pleased to find included a number of recommendations which I and Mr Evans made two years ago in our report on mobility within the Community, in particular the mobility of students, people undergoing training and people doing voluntary work as well as teachers and researchers. Then, last but certainly not least, there is a special section which deals with the mobility of people with disabilities. We need to go further, however. If, indeed, we want a Europe with more and higher-quality jobs, with greater social cohesion – in other words, if we want to achieve the ambitious but necessary Lisbon objectives – it is essential that we continue to concentrate on eliminating once and for all those barriers which still exist, restricting the professional and geographical mobility of the European citizens and, indeed, limiting their potential. We cannot afford to let this absurd situation continue any longer. It is easier for money, goods and services to move within the European Union than the European citizens themselves. Consider the strategic role of the local authorities, the opportunities provided by teleworking and the need to modernise and fully exploit the potential of the Eures system. This is something I stressed in my report on the Sixth Framework-Programme for Research too. We therefore need to update and simplify coordination of social security once and for all, speed up revision of Regulation No 1408/71 and address and resolve together the complex issue of supplementary pensions. A key issue, then, which Mr Zappalà is currently addressing in committee, is that of academic and vocational qualifications and the mutual recognition thereof. We must, at last, achieve that European area of qualifications which will complete the reform of the internal market, increasing mobility between the different Member States of the Union considerably. –  Mr President, with reference to the amendment to Paragraph 21a, I propose that the words ‘and armed opposition forces which continue to recruit child soldiers’ be added after the words ‘strongly condemns governments’, in order to condemn governments and armed oppositions which make use of child soldiers. –  Mr President, I have to say that I am genuinely perplexed – and I am not saying this to take sides – by this report, not least in the light of my experience of the past two years in which, as Vice-President of the ACP-EEC Joint Assembly responsible for Human Rights, much of my time was spent promoting women’s rights and freedoms. I am perplexed by many parts of the report and I want to go back to the crux of the matter, which I feel has been comprehensively defined by Mrs Bonino in her speech, and state my views clearly once again. The problem is the separation of religion from politics. From this point of view, if there is to be such a separation, it has to be understood that there are two ways of looking at these two radically different dimensions of life; so much so that, in actual fact, the only fundamentalism I truly fear is the fundamentalism of those sorts of idealisms which can no longer see the sense of reality in dealing with each specific subject individually by different means. Therefore, when this report calls upon us not to recognise States in which women are excluded from government and it is referring not to a normal State but to a State such as the Vatican, for example, I realise immediately that there is something wrong, for we are being asked to trespass on Member States’ prerogatives and interfere in something which does not deserve such treatment. Similarly, if religion and politics are to be separated, the problem is the freedom of the Church, which must not be conditioned by political points of view or prerogatives. Therefore, when I read in point K of this report that, when religious bodies carry out activities of a public nature, they are, just by doing so, as good as committing a crime against an alleged European law; that is, if, by way of example, a religious body were to run a hospital or a school, it would in some way be a threat to European law, I find this extremely disturbing. That is why I confirm once again my support for the fight to uphold women’s rights, but I must strongly reiterate my concern at the report’s method and subject matter. –  Mr President, I would like to make it quite clear that the way this subject is being exploited for political ends is totally unacceptable, particularly the attempt to undermine the role played by the Catholic Church and the Holy See in those international bodies from which some would like to see it removed in order to further lobbies such as those behind this motion. I would like, first of all, to point out that the Holy See is one thing and the individual people belonging to the Catholic Church are another. The Holy See is not a State of which every Catholic is a citizen; the Holy See serves the universal community through its authority but it cannot be held responsible for every action of all the Catholics in the world, whether priests or lay people. This must be clearly understood to be a fact when we form opinions in a delicate matter such as this. Therefore, when the motion makes several explicit references to the responsibility of the Holy See, it is entering the realms of political exploitation, which must be totally rejected. . –  Mr President, at the risk of going back over some of the ground already covered by Mr Alavanos, I would like to contribute to the debate, in particular by using my speech to describe certain aspects of the scenario in which we are currently placed and which I feel -Learning will influence by placing the spotlight on two fundamental elements. Moreover, I see these elements as the principal merits of the two Commission documents: the communication and the action plan. A correct interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity: the -Learning action plan has succeeded in finding a niche in the sensitive debate on the use made by the States of their national education systems, demonstrating that the term ‘European educational area’ is a realistic, positive concept in which we must have confidence without fear of undermining the cultural identities of our countries. Moreover, the subject of new technologies is certainly one which we can develop further to enhance these common elements. The second positive element lies, in my opinion, in the fact that the -Learning action plan favours a positive and – I would add – social approach to certain typical effects of globalisation. In this sense, I must say, the action plan goes some way towards allaying some of Mr Alavanos' concerns, for there is no doubt that it provides for opportunities for access to the knowledge-based society as a way of avoiding imbalance, and, I would add, it gives new meaning to the concept of cooperation between public and private institutions. In fact, to some extent it enhances and focuses on the distinguishing feature of -Learning, which is that a nation's education systems and teaching methodologies will always be more important than any other system, even systems of government, and they must therefore receivethe benefit of the greatest possible input from all the players in the establishment of a welfare community. In any case, before turning to any specific aspects, I am anxious to thank the Commission, particularly Commissioner Reding and her collaborators, for their willingness to help, and the members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for their extremely valuable contributions in recent months. I have to say that, of the more specific issues covered by my report, that which receives the greatest focus is teacher training. I would like, as far as is possible, to illustrate the importance of this subject with an example. When Dante makes his journey through hell and purgatory, he is accompanied by a guide: Virgil. Virgil is a person with the highest moral attributes who, however, at the time, also has at his disposal all the best that the technology of classical culture can provide. For example, he uses the technology and technique of metaphor, and he does so in order to bring Dante to greater knowledge, to a greater and better understanding of the meaning of the world in which he lives. Well then, if we do not now place European teachers in a position to make proper, realistic use of new technologies, we will be turning them into pseudo-Virgils, that is Virgils who will not be capable of guiding Dante – the Dante who is each of their pupils – along the path which will lead him to purification and knowledge, because they do not have access to the new metaphors, the new structures, the new digital technologies that can provide an educational system which is, at last, free from the constraints of a culture which is not infrequently disjointed and disordered. It is in this sense that the issue of teacher training is absolutely top priority, and the endeavours perceptible on some of the pages of the action plan are certainly to be increased and recompensed. They are to be increased and recompensed because it is the responsibility of all of us to realise that the effect of the -Learning action will not just be reform of parts of our education system but genuine reform of the way we think. We will have to find a way to explain why this progression is necessary within the Union's education systems and how very necessary it is. In order to do this, I feel that the endeavours we make, including in terms of the budget and of clarifying the aims of the budget, will certainly have to be considerable. I would like to end by thanking our fellow Members once again and entrusting to them the heart of our message, in particular, which is that, as I have stressed, the new technologies are a tool, they are a means – not the end – but a means that is absolutely essential right now. –  Mr President, I would like to reinforce Mrs Sbarbati's warning: right now we need more boldness. The European institutions need to be more courageous. Together with the United States, the European Union now has the difficult and vital task of preventing either party from reverting to its past position and of assessing the possibility of finding a solution to the problems of the Palestinians and the Israelis. With a view to this, I support Mr Galeote's proposal to hold a conference along the same lines as the Madrid Conference. I will illustrate the importance of this with a historical reference: in the 1980 Venice Declaration, proposed by Ministers Genscher and Colombo, the Community first of all established the need for a solution to be found to the Palestinian question through negotiations. At that time, Arafat was still regarded as a terrorist, he was barred from obtaining a visa to go to the United Nations headquarters in America and there was no general consensus regarding the diplomatic strategies to be adopted. Following his visit to Rome in 1982 for the Conference of the Interparliamentary Union, things at last started to move and not only did Arafat obtain his visa but – following the preparatory work carried out in Oslo – the United States started to play an active part in the Palestinian question. Today, there is no question about the fact that the United States' activity is vital, but I do feel that the European Union also has a part to play and that it must not forget the past, not in order to claim any right to rule, but to regain its essential role which, as Minister Moscovici pointed out, complements the activities of the United States in the search for a solution to the matter, a solution which is still a long way off. I would like to end with a reference to what is known as the International Statute of Jerusalem. By an International Statute I do not mean that the city would have an international administration, but merely that, as an international community, we must direct this initiative so that the statutory instrument – irrespective of who has territorial sovereignty over Jerusalem – commits all parties to a system of international control, so that every believer – whether Christian, Jew or Muslim – is, at last, guaranteed access to the holy sites. I did of course vote in favour of the resolutions on the storms and the oil slick and I should like to express my heartfelt sympathy for the people stricken by these disasters. I am thinking in particular, with great warmth, of the inhabitants of my own region, Champagne-Ardennes, who suffered greatly from these storms in December. I deplore the further consequences which this oil slick may have for the communities on the Atlantic coast. Indeed I am concerned about what chance the marinas and local communities still have of obtaining the Blue Flag 2000. For twenty years the European Blue Flag has been testimony to the considerable efforts made by municipalities to promote economic development that respects the environment. Around fifty municipalities in the five French departments affected by the oil slick are involved in Blue Flag 2000 schemes. I am also concerned at the rumours regarding a request to postpone awarding blue flags to French beaches on the Atlantic coast. What then of the loss of reputation suffered by these beaches and the injustice, when some municipalities would no longer have the flag but others would? Should there be a decision to award the blue flag to a few municipalities in order to enhance the reputation of the whole coast as a tourist area, or not award it to any of them to ensure fair treatment all round? I call upon Member States and the European Union to relieve the problems arising as a result of these disasters by means of long-term financial aid, certainly, but also by means of ‘moral support’ (these resolutions play their part in this) for the people so seriously affected by the polluted beaches, the uprooted trees, the flattened and indeed devastated forests. What is important is the time factor, for we are not talking short term here, like the multinationals, but rather in terms of centuries for the reforestation of France. That should give us a lesson in humility. – Mr President, I will use this brief intervention to support the amendment tabled by Mr McCormick, which I believe has the merit, in this case, of having pinpointed the fact that the principle of subsidiarity, besides being a legal principle and, perhaps, besides being a theological principle, is certainly a principle of great existential importance, which is to say that it can immediately be related to the daily lives of our citizens. What in fact is the state, or in any case a governmental body, if not the fruit of a pact for freedom between the citizens? In this sense, if there has been a pact for freedom, the state is the guarantor of any attempts that its citizens make to meet their own needs, it is not the master of them. If it is a guarantor and not a master, it immediately follows that in the structure created by Mr Wuermeling, under which powers would be devolved to the Member States in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, what should subsequently be guaranteed is that an identical process must also be followed by these same Member States. Observance of the principle of subsidiarity should therefore be guaranteed right down to the smallest communities, to autonomous units, to intermediate groups, social groups, families and citizens who are the only true sovereign power when it comes to legislative and administrative action. It is for this reason that I would like to state my support for Amendment No 1 to Paragraph 11a, tabled by Mr McCormick, which would seem to reproduce and propose in a sound and upright manner an interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity that is not theological but constitutional, as it should be. .  Mr President, with today’s debate and tomorrow’s vote, the Learning programme is officially coming into being. The time has come to congratulate those responsible for this achievement. The mother of the programme is, without a doubt, the European Commission, which launched the first Learning pilot action with its May 2000 communication, although, at that time, the action was not financed by its own budget line. Tomorrow, two years on, thanks to meticulous work characterised by cooperation between the institutions, the first multiannual Learning programme will be put to the vote. It is not, therefore, difficult to understand that the measure had a father too, as well as a mother. It is always more difficult to identify the father, and a question mark remains in this case too, but I would say that the role belongs equally to Parliament and the Council. The endeavours of the Council, both under the Greek Presidency and, more conclusively, under the Italian Presidency, enabled Parliament to find a substantial opening for its requests and, therefore, to allocate to the Learning programme sufficient funds for it to be launched. This multiannual programme, which stands alongside other historic programmes such as Socrates and Leonardo, meets the demands of the Lisbon, Stockholm and Barcelona European Councils. The main objectives are fighting the digital divide through implementing computer literacy methods, promoting virtual campuses, -twinning of schools, promoting and disseminating good practice and cooperation between Community programmes and action instruments promoted at national level. The programme’s budget was, as I said, increased to EUR 44 million thanks to what I would like to call close cooperation between the institutions. As regards the -twinning of European schools, in line with the objectives adopted in the previous European Parliament resolution, I wanted to stress once again how teacher training remains a priority. I would like us to reflect once again on the fact that, in 2003, on average, 90% of primary schools, 98% of secondary schools and 99% of vocational and technical schools in the Member States were connected to the Internet, but only 39% of primary school teachers, 50% of secondary school teachers and 58% of teachers in vocational and technical schools actually used the Internet as a teaching tool. There is, therefore, a great need for this programme. In actual fact, these averages conceal huge discrepancies between the Member States: while the average figure for Denmark is approximately 70%, the average figure for Greece is below 9%. From these figures, which are already, in themselves, quite clear, two things can be inferred. The first concerns the use of the Internet as a tool to facilitate teaching. It is not just a question of availability of infrastructure and school equipment but of teacher training, mentality and school organisation. The second concerns the use of technological resources. The setting up of virtual training rooms, for example, is one way of achieving the goal of exchanges of good practice between teachers in the different Member States, at both methodological and teaching level. For these reasons, I have attempted to stress in the report that theLearning programme should attach greater importance to finding more effective methods that will help teachers incorporate the use of the Internet into their teaching and encourage the dissemination of good practice in this sector. Once again, I would like to thank the Commission and all the Commission staff who have contributed to the success of our work. –  Mr President, I feel that the presence in this Chamber, among the many esteemed Members, of a number of people whom we remember as sporting champions of history, immediately makes the meaning of what we wanted to convey in cooperating with Mrs Pack on this report clear. Our dear friends, Mrs Zabell, Mrs Matikainen-Kallström and Mr Mennea, are in some way an example, evidence of the simple fact that educating people through sport means producing a generation which knows the value of things as well as the price. Precisely because it understands their value, it is able to display a great passion for social values when it matures, displaying a strength and commitment which are not limited to the quest for results at all costs, and that is why these Members are fully entitled to sit in this Chamber and are worthy representatives of the European Union. Our intention is to convey this concept and these values in a debate which embraces the education systems too. At the moment, if there is any severe criticism in our report, it is criticism of the European education systems, which are devoting increasingly less time to the playing of sport in schools and under which there are an ever-increasing number of schools with dilapidated sports facilities. These must receive support and assistance. This is one reason for the rapporteur’s concern to approach the matter in a practical way, promoting a practical debate on the educational potential of sport through the staging of the competitions. In other words, I believe that the European Year of Education through Sport may be the right stimulus to get schools to do something for the European youth of tomorrow, to change the fate of a generation, so that, in the future, we have different young people who not only become champions but, more importantly, become people who see sport as a path to truth, in other words who become champions of humanity, for a champion of humanity can become a sporting champion too. –  Madam President, the situation in Northern Uganda and Southern Sudan is the setting for the drama of the child-soldiers. The aim of my speech and of the resolution which has just been tabled is to prompt Parliament and the institutions to adopt ongoing initiatives which do more than just respond to moments of crisis. There has been continuous armed conflict in this region for the last 30 years; civil society has been completely destroyed and different groups of rebels have been massacring the peoples of Northern Uganda for over 12 years. Their favourite victims are children and adolescents because they are vulnerable and easily influenced. To date, approximately 60% of the soldiers in the Lord's Resistance Army are children under the age of 16. The strategy is precisely to manipulate the children and subject them to brutal force so that they will in turn be able to kill and torture others. Adolescent girls are given to the rebels as wives, but the most noticeable thing is that not even the Nairobi Agreements between Uganda and the Sudan last December have caused the LRA to change its attitude.  During the last few days, I have had the opportunity to talk to one of the girls who has escaped from the fields of Southern Sudan, who confirmed that the LRA has no intention of changing its position. Further evidence of this is the funeral of John Baptista Ochaia, the representative of the Chairman of Kitgum district council, who died the day before yesterday from wounds received during an LRA ambush, which took place today in Uganda. It is therefore unacceptable that the European authorities and many commercial entities should maintain an attitude almost of tacit approval of this situation, without making any attempt to break the circle which is robbing a generation of its future. –  Madam President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines and focus on one aspect of her speech, namely the need to define a system of qualifications which makes them easy to understand and compare. I wish, in particular, to put forward once again the proposal, which I feel has a place in a debate such as this, that the legal validity of qualifications should be abolished. In my opinion, this is a measure which could serve to ensure that the confusion in the debate between public and private sectors – the guarantee of high quality education – is avoided. Indeed, as Professor Vattimo rightly said, there is a great deal of emphasis on providing a genuine guarantee of the educational experience. Well then, until evidence is provided to the contrary, the legal status of the administrator cannot be the guarantee of that experience. In the eighteenth century, the whole of Europe flocked to Prussia, not because Prussia had an efficient state capable of running universities but, above all, because there was a great teacher named Immanuel Kant. In fact, the validity of the learning adventure is guaranteed by the broad-mindedness of the teachers, and that is precisely the point I am trying to make. In all probability, abolishing the legal validity of educational qualifications is still one of the best ways of guaranteeing the full legitimacy of those establishments which know how to teach properly. This is so true that, although Professor Vattimo the MEP may not be able to acknowledge it for ideological reasons, Professor Vattimo the university lecturer is quite aware that studying for a degree under ‘the Prof’ is different from doing so under any other tutor, to the extent that the guarantee of the educational experience that he provides is not the fact that it is the state which runs the University of Turin but his love of the truth and his love of the adventure of learning. –  Mr President, I will refrain from adding to what many Members have said very effectively on the subject of East Timor. Instead, I would like to ask a question about it – ‘build peace without opportunism’ – what does that mean? In short, after 24 years of this tragedy, and after 24 years of the international community avoiding imposing economic sanctions, what does ‘make every effort’ now mean?  On this, I add my voice to the request already made in this House and by the Senate of the Republic of my country, asking for European governments and the UN to recognise, as soon as possible, the sovereign state of East Timor, and the fact that it is no longer an issue dealt with exclusively in this House does credit to my Portuguese colleagues and colleagues from certain other countries. I would like to add another consideration to this. In addition to the debt we have owed to East Timor for 24 years, there is the fact that, while there have been demonstrations about East Timor, we are not taking into account the political hypothesis that we must in any case once again beg the United States for the favour of possible military intervention. This forces us to re-examine the subject of common defence. One final point. It is still possible for us to do what is right for East Timor, to do it immediately and with determination. The credibility of this institution depends not only on endorsing the Commissioners of the Commission, but also largely on the question of East Timor. –  Madam President, I would like to make you aware of something very inconvenient which happened to me which, in my opinion, undermines the dignity of the Members of this Parliament.  On Tuesday afternoon, I went to Poland to take part in an international conference. At the Görlitz border post, as can happen, the German police expressed doubts as to my identity. In order to convince the police and improve the situation I produced my European Parliament pass. At this point, the German police thought that the document was a fake and detained me for eight hours until, after intense discussion, the necessary clarification had been obtained. I had to spend eight hours under surveillance in a room and I was not allowed to use a telephone. It was only after the intervention of the Polish authorities, who, moreover, recognised the validity of the document – and this bodes well for enlargement – that I was allowed to continue my journey. I will submit a more detailed description of the incident shortly, but, for the time being, I would be very grateful if you could make the German authorities aware of the problem. Border police need to be aware of the existence and function of this document. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to accept the suggestions made in this Chamber by speakers such as Mr Segni, for example, and hold one particular person responsible for all the evils of the media sector, we should somehow have to conclude that the deer and other animals which invaded the runway at Strasbourg airport today were, in actual fact, extras from the Mediaset networks which had been recruited and enlisted to prevent this debate from taking place! That is not the case! The matter we are discussing is so much more complex and problematic that we must rather be aware that the speed of technological progress is leading, particularly in the field of communications, to the development of new ways of transferring knowledge, new forms of peaceful coexistence of peoples and new lifestyles and mentalities. In other words, communications generate culture, and culture is transmitted via communications. One might say that all our lives are now locked in a communication mechanism requiringa complete reassessment of all our basic points of reference. The huge increase in information sources and the failure to distinguish between their levels of authoritativeness, the progressive replacement of interpersonal relations with a mediated approach and the expression of opinions on the basis of opinion polls which are not founded on fact, are all factors which ultimately lead to various forms of dissociation, which influence our very beliefs and lives. The recent events in Italy were not the result of this very complex issue of the media. Rather, what happened was that the left, which had controlled state television in recent years, went so far as to attempt to influence the last elections and, in its endeavours to hold the sword of Damocles over its political opponent’s head, put off the issue of regulating the media sector indefinitely and made it very difficult for the matter to be resolved. Absence of control and supervision has never brought guarantees or freedom, as many would have us believe. It ultimately fosters the indiscriminate use of extremely powerful tools which, if abused, have devastating effects on people’s consciences and society. I therefore call upon the Commission to be the guarantor of this principle of freedom and to propose an appropriate course of action to Parliament and the Council, which could, for example, be the subject of another Green Paper. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, mine is the last speech and therefore in some way also the most confused. My confusion has been caused to a great extent by the acumen of some of the speeches that came before. I no longer know whether the President-in-Office will preside over the IGC in Rome in the fullness of his prerogatives or whether, as Enrique Barón Crespo claims, he will be an occasional guest of the mayor of that city. Most of all, however, I no longer know whether the epithet ‘human atom bomb’ should be applied, as it has been historically, to the unforgettable Rita Hayworth, or whether it should be transferred, as Mrs Frassoni would have it, to Vice-President Fini. Therefore, in order to set my values straight, I have decided to make a dull but clear speech, something along the lines of ‘God, country and family’, hinging on the subject of Europe’s Christian roots, which is not an ideological subject but one of democratic procedures. Indeed, this reference is not a contribution to the clerical concerns of certain social groups but the historical memory of the truest meaning behind our institutions. Our democratic institutions are in fact the result of a freedom pact with the citizens, who transfer some of their own sovereignty to them in exchange for guarantees and services. From this viewpoint, the states and especially the supranational institutions, are guarantors of the attempts that we citizens make to respond to our needs – they are guarantors, not masters – and they are such because they are well aware that they cannot be the final answer to people’s heartfelt desires. The reference to Europe’s Christian roots merely shows that today’s Europe realises that, without its bond with the uniting and personalistic tension of Christianity, it will always be weaker, more exposed to the political short cuts of totalitarian regimes. To be able to reject humanity to the utmost, such regimes have always preferred to begin by rejecting God, though for less explicit reasons than the politically correct of today. . – There are at least two good reasons in principle, if not more, for the French delegation from the Union for Europe of the Nations Group to vote against this report. The first reason concerns the perspective on which it is based: the planned accession of Turkey to the European Union. Turkey is heir to a great civilisation. However, as it is culturally different from a Judaeo-Christian and humanist Europe, geographically situated (95%) in Asia Minor and does not belong to the Indo-European family, I do not think there is any reason for Turkey to join the Union. Yes to cooperation with the EU, no to membership! The second reason is the European Union’s obligation to respect the national sovereignty of third countries. It is perfectly clear that this extreme report constitutes blatant interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign State. By what right, however, and based on what moral standards can the European Union judge and at times condemn Turkey? Who are we to stigmatise, for example, the disproportionate role of the army, which ‘slows down Turkey’s development towards a democratic and pluralist system’? This report, which is contemptuous towards the Turkish people, is very bad for Europe as a whole. . –  Mr President, before focusing on some specific points, I would like to say an informal ‘thank you’ to the European Commission, in the person of Mrs Reding and her colleagues, and the Greek Presidency, in the person of the Minister for Education, and Mr Tsiakaris, the chairman of the education committee. It is their availability, in particular, during these two months of intense work, which has enabled to us to respect the timeframes we set ourselves for the adoption of this report, which, I have to say, has been produced in a very short space of time. I would also point out that the amendments to the European Commission’s proposal have been agreed with both the Commission’s services and the Council representatives. We are all quite aware that our greatest achievement in adopting this programme will be precisely launching the related calls for proposals in a short space of time. A lot of progress has been made with regard to eLearning since the Lisbon Council in March 2000, and we have now moved from the proposal for action to implement new technology in the field of education to a legislative resolution which will lead to a genuine multi-annual programme. As I pointed out previously during the work on the Commission's first communication, particular emphasis has been placed on the role of teachers as a channel enabling the development of digital literacy in our schools. This is why the issue of training teachers or, in any case, equipping them to make use of the new technologies, is an absolute priority, and the endeavours which can be glimpsed in some pages of the Commission proposal must certainly be rewarded and supported. I nonetheless consider it advisable to make some changes to the Commission proposal, particularly as regards the multi-annual budget. The question I asked myself at the start of our work was: what should be regarded as an 'appropriate' budget for an ambitious multi-annual programme such as this? It is not easy to answer this question because resources for culture and education always seem to be particularly limited. What encouraged me and prompted me to persevere in this matterwas the proposal made by the European Commission itself in the 2003 budget: budget line B3-1000 has been allocated EUR 18 million in commitment appropriations for the preparatory actions in the 2003 budget. The reasoning behind my decision to amend the Commission’s current proposal of EUR 36 million is this: would it not be unusual to spend less each year on a multi-annual programme than on the preparatory actions which preceded it? In this sense, I think the Commission should be grateful to me for pointing out to it that, actually, EUR 18 million multiplied by three equals EUR 54 million, which would appear to be a more appropriate figure. The question of the distribution of the budget warrants further emphasis. Initially, in the Commission’s proposal, 25% of the budget was dedicated to fighting the digital divide. I want to clarify why I have called for this amount to be reduced in my amendment. I am absolutely convinced of the need to fight the social causes of the digital divide. I am equally convinced that the funding should be sought within other Community instruments – the Structural Funds, the European Social Fund and the Leonardo da Vinci programme – because, if we were to wait in order to use the eLearning funds to respond to the need to bridge the digital divide, even then providing essentially only the most basic of responses, almost the entire budget for the eLearning actions would be used up. As regards the E-twinning of European schools, in line with the objectives adopted in the European Parliament's previous resolution, I wish to stress that training teachers remains a priority within the programme. I want us to reflect on the fact that, on average, 90% of primary schools, 98% of secondary schools and 99% of vocational and technical schools in the Member States were connected to the Internet in 2002. However, only 39% of primary school teachers, 50% of secondary school teachers and 58% of teachers in vocational and technical schools used the Internet as a teaching instrument. These averages actually conceal dramatic differences between Member States: while the average for Denmark is approximately 75%, the corresponding figure in Greece is not even as high as 9%. These figures, which are clear enough in themselves, point to two conclusions. The first concerns the use of the Internet as a teaching tool. It is not just a matter of the availability of infrastructure or educational equipment; sometimes the problem concerns the training of teachers and educational organisation. The second conclusion concerns the use of technological resources. The goal can really become that of exchanging methodological and didactic good practice between teachers in various Member States, or the start-up of 'virtual training rooms'. For these reasons, I consider that the Commission proposal should give greater weight to finding the most effective ways for teachers to integrate use of the Internet into their teaching and to encourage the dissemination of good practice in this sector. Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Antonione for remaining with us thus far. I have to say that this debate is not adding anything new to what we already know because, although it is true that there is a general problem where sustainable development is concerned, the fact is that, in this period, we are on the eve of enlargement – partial but major enlargement. There will be 25 countries in the European Union and we must equip ourselves so that we can achieve closer relations between the Member States. Closer relations mean more traffic and more cultural, economic and commercial exchanges, for exchanges involve the transfer of knowledge and wealth, which enables Europe to open its doors to successive enlargements, the ultimate goal being to achieve the full unity of our continent. That said, I have to note that this evening’s debate is based principally on the work of the Van Miert Group and, in particular, on the priorities which have been set according to criteria which, in my opinion, need to be analysed in depth. I cannot list them all, so I will confine myself to mentioning the 10 major trans-European corridors planned and the fact that these infrastructures have essentially been assessed, first and foremost, with reference to the present European Union rather than the future EU, in the sense that a great deal of pressure has been exerted by the countries who are already Members while those who are, in any case, already knocking at the European Union’s doors had no bargainingpower, with the result that we are now essentially in a position where we do need to consider their needs. I would mention, not by chance, by way of example, corridor 8, one of the two corridors which concern Italy. On the list of these priorities, it has been given almost the lowest urgent status, whereas a large bridge is to be opened providing a link with the Balkans, whose peoples, despite the effects of the recent war, are already displaying an accelerated growth rate and are a model example of howcommunities such as those of southern Italy, an area inhabited by 20 million citizens who, precisely through relations with the Balkans and the East, can play a major role within Europe, can become leaders in development. Madam President, pending the arrival of news which we have not received, please would you forward my observations in the form of recommendations, at least, and, perhaps, concerns. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur for the PPE-DE Group on the report on economic and social cohesion, I would like to thank Mrs Schroedter for her work, although there are still a number of points which, by agreement with my group, I am seeking to modify by tabling a series of amendments which I hope the rapporteur will be able to accept. In particular, I feel that it is premature to ask the Commission to produce a proposal on the future of the Objective 2 regions and the future of Community initiatives even before the third report on economic and social cohesion is published, not least in that the time frames necessary for an in-depth analysis to be carried out by December 2003 – Commissioner Barnier’s deadline for presenting the report – have not been established and we have not been provided with the necessary information. We would prefer to be able to take the time necessary to work on reforming cohesion policy, in other words to work according to the time frames specified by the Commission, avoiding, above all, hasty conclusions being drawn which will not benefit the regions and will benefit the new Member States still less. Next, I would like to point out that, in an enlarged Union, some of the Objective 1 regions will automatically statistically exceed the threshold of 75% of the average Union GDP without this representing any genuine increase in development. In this respect, in line with what was decided in the second report on economic and social cohesion, for which I was the rapporteur, I feel it is inadequate to take GDP as the only indicator. Other criteria, including, in particular, the unemployment rate, should be taken into account. We also believe that the Union’s policies and the sectoral policies of the Member States must focus on the achievement of cohesion objectives and sustainable development plans for the regions. Lastly, we will vote against paragraphs 16 and 22, for they are repetitions of paragraphs already included in the rapporteur’s text. –  Mr President, today’s debate in this House is also an opportunity to highlight the extremely serious and unjustified delay of a magistracy measure arriving after twenty years of inquiries. This delay has displayed a serious disrespect for the great desire for truth, not only of the victims’ relatives but also of those entire communities which have been involved in this tragic event. So naturally, while I join the invitation extended to those countries which were involved to cooperate in establishing the truth, I would also ask the European Parliament not to forget this event at this most delicate time of public debate in order to ascertain the truth. Therefore, I ask Parliament to use its representatives and bodies to continue to monitor events so that this tragedy will finally reach a just and honest conclusion, as requested by the Italian and European communities in their entirety. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all recognise the importance of the Erika II package, which seeks to improve safety and avoid the repetition of environmental disasters at sea and along the coasts of the European Community. It took the disaster of the  in December 1999 for us to launch a series of measures on the safety of sea traffic. However, it gives me great pleasure to be able to say that the debate on the measures making up the package is progressing fast in a coordinated manner, demonstrating a clear convergence of objectives within the European institutions. I congratulate the European Parliament on its work, for it conducted the analysis of the proposals rapidly and resolutely. With regard to the safety of the transportation of hazardous, pollutant goods by sea, it is now clear that the current legislation is totally inadequate. In fact, Directive 93/75/EEC lays down a notification system for the goods but does not establish rules for collecting information. In this regard, Mr Sterckx's report draws our attention to the need to increase the safety of maritime transport by using new technologies and the instruments made available to us by international provisions establishing a Community monitoring, control and information system. We must guarantee more stringent monitoring of ships which represent particularly high risks to safety at sea or the environment. I agree with the rapporteur when he calls for an increase in the powers of Member States to act in their capacity as coastal States when faced with accident hazards or the threat of pollution. In addition, we are all convinced of the utility of installing a black box on board vessels, and we hope that it will be possible to bring older ships into line with the new standards within the transition period, even if this means installing a simplified version of the black box or VDR. I would like to end by drawing your attention to the fact that VDRs and transponders are not in themselves sufficient to avoid accidents. Other factors such as the level of training and the competence of the crew are equally as important. –  Mr President, Commissioner, the question before us is what line our cohesion policy should follow in the new perspective that is opening up with enlargement. There are two parts to the response: on the one hand, the principles on which cohesion policies are to be based from 2006 onwards must be established and, on the other hand, the priorities must be set. In my opinion, there are two principles which must underpin cohesion policy: firstly, equal opportunities, and secondly, regionalisation. Modern economic theory teaches us, with a wealth of detail and supported by considerable empirical evidence, that the success of local development policies is strictly linked to an increase in the power of individuals to take autonomous decisions and to the projects for implementing regional policies which are acceptable to those voters. In the same way, talking about regionalisation is the same as defining economic policies at local level so that they respect and appreciate the different assets of each region, and so that the local government institutions, subject to monitoring by the electorate making them politically accountable, can take collective decisions backed by genuine democratic support. The achievement of these goals certainly requires a different type of statistic on the state of the economies, at both local and national and Community level. Data on  income are no longer sufficient to assess individuals’ opportunities for access in the European regions; we need much more: we need indicators which measure the degree of access to resources, indicators which measure the level of economic freedoms, which measure the level of fundamental human rights, which measure, in short, the quality of life. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is having to compete with a series of challenges generated by globalisation and the creation of a new economy based on knowledge and new technologies.  The Union’s strategic goal for the forthcoming decade must be to ensure economic growth and free enterprise, without violating the social question, with guidelines based on competitiveness, sustainable development and the creation of new jobs. On the subject of this last point, as the Katiforis report stressed, there has been a slight fall in unemployment in Europe, but unemployment is still unacceptably high, particularly as regards the level of unemployment among women and young people. The situation appears worse in certain regions of Southern Europe, in particular in the South of Italy, where 21.9% of the workforce is unemployed, including 56.6% of the 14-25 age group. Consequently, in my opinion, broad guidelines for economic growth and a rise in employment should include measures to render the European market more competitive and increase job flexibility.  In order to bring about sustainable growth, we need to finalise creation of the internal market and remove all the remaining barriers by liberalising those sectors which are not yet totally open to free competition, such as transport, gas, electricity and the postal services. We need to introduce the reforms which will have to be implemented by the Member States in order to alleviate the burden on firms, reduce labour costs, sustain actions supporting lifelong learning in the context of a knowledge-based economy and support research to close the gap between Europe and the United States and Japan. We need to facilitate public administration structural reform in the countries where excessive red tape is a barrier to private investment and bring the social protection and taxation systems into line with the requirements imposed by the new economic rules and with the constraints established by the Stability and Growth Pact. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission’s communication, which seeks to bring about a voluntary agreement between car manufacturers operating on the internal market in order to increase the protection afforded to pedestrians and other road users, is certainly a major step forwards in the area of road safety. I believe it is also a good example of a non-legislative approach which can benefit the citizens quickly and strengthen the framework of the internal market. The measures proposed by the European Automobile Manufacturers Association – introducing more pedestrian-friendly car fronts, fitting all new vehicles with ABS, installing daytime running lights in countries where this is permitted, and vehicle crash tests – should indeed make it possible to reduce the unacceptable number of people and pedestrians who, each year, lose their lives or are seriously or irreparably injured. A negotiated agreement would therefore be an initial positive step towards improving road safety, and the commitment could still be improved in time and monitored. In this context, it would appear fundamentally important for the European Parliament to call upon the Commission to guarantee the independence in both form and substance of the technical services certifying the conformity with the tests laid down of all new vehicle models that manufacturers intend to place on the market. In this regard, the motion for a resolution to be put to the vote today quite rightly calls for the conformity inspection procedures to be set on the basis of guidelines established jointly withthe Joint Research Centreand under its supervision. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate Mr Mauro Turco on his excellent work. His report states clearly that the results of the 1994-9 Structural Funds programming period, taking into account the assessments available at the end of 1998, have not met expectations on a number of fronts. This is particularly true in the case of Italy. Suffice it to say that there was a considerable delay in the use of many of the appropriations, although improvement was apparent at the end of the programming period, obtained purely by mathematical calculation through transferring Objective 2 appropriations to Objective 1. Suffice it to say that, as far as Objective 4 is concerned, in 1998, Italy did not fulfil any of its undertakings and has only paid out 3% of the funding. The checking and assessment mechanisms have been decidedly inadequate. There are essentially three reasons for this poor management and they were highlighted by the Court of Auditors: firstly, lack of planning and poor interaction between the measures funded and the various funding instruments, factors which prevented us achieving the expected added value; secondly, lack of global vision which meant that the projects defined were not ambitious enough; thirdly, delays in concluding previous projects and programmes, largely due to the absence of documents justifying the actual expenditure. Now, considering the forthcoming 2000-2006 programming period, even though management has been simplified and the number of objectives and Community initiatives reduced, I cannot contain my concern and I sympathise with many regional council chairmen as they tackle the issue of the failure to use Community funds and the responsibilities of the Italian Government. Months after the rejection by the European Commission of the Objective 2 area map it had put forward on the grounds that the area definition criteria did not correspond, the Italian Government had still not presented a valid, compliant proposal, and this was not for lack of good will on the part of the European Commission. The result is certainly not outstanding. We cannot afford to lose more time, and we cannot afford to decline ITL 10 000 billion either; neither the Italian economic situation nor the Italian taxpayer would allow it. –  Mr President, the report under discussion in the House today is doubtless of great importance.  In addition to the objectives it is working towards, the strong point of the Community initiative INTERREG for the 2000-2006 programming period lies in its added value from the viewpoint of what is now the imminent enlargement of the European Union to include new Eastern European and Mediterranean countries.  In my opinion, it is precisely in anticipation of this deadline that the European Union should strive to reduce disparities between regions and put an end to the isolation of border areas. Indeed, these areas – and it is right to stress this – have an important role to play as an interface with the applicant countries that are going to join the Union.  It is precisely with this in mind that I tabled some amendments which I consider to be of the utmost importance, and that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has subsequently taken up. They call for the areas eligible for cross-border cooperation to be extended to all regions of the Adriatic, as well as to the Sicilian provinces which have a frontier with Malta – an applicant country – which, inexplicably, are not currently included in strand A, Annex 1.  I am confident that Commissioner Barnier and the President of the European Commission will duly consider Parliament’s position on the matter, in accordance with the Code of Conduct.  There are fundamental advantages for the whole of Europe for it to promote cooperation with the applicant countries and to support border regions. Finally, it is to be hoped that greater coordination will be soughtbetween the INTERREG initiative and the existing Community programmes, which are significant for external policy, as a vector for greater integration and for the joint drafting of programmes. –  Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, transport by sea is undoubtedly one of the least environmentally damaging modes of transport. This is demonstrated by the fact that the measures adopted at international level to improve safety and reduce accidental pollution have certainly had some success. Nevertheless, we still unfortunately witness serious incidents, such as the recent sinking of the , which show how urgent it is to adopt new measures to promote marine safety and to avoid any repetition of incidents that have such major ecological and economic repercussions on our coastlines, our seas, fisheries and tourism. With regard to these three new proposals on maritime safety, I can only congratulate the three rapporteurs, who in a very short time have shown how determined our Parliament is to adopt new measures to enhance safety at sea, controls and construction standards, and that it is no longer tolerable that similar incidents should occur again. I believe it is our duty to strengthen the enforcement of existing directives on these matters and to adopt new measures designed to clear our seas of sub-standard vessels, real sea-going old rust buckets. In addition to adopting this package of measures, the European Union should, in my view, act in a worldwide context, identifying solutions agreed at international level that will improve maritime safety and at the same time not penalise our shipowners in comparison with others. In conclusion, I would highlight the need to set up an information exchange system among the Member States on navigation safety in areas with heavy tanker traffic, so as to ensure constant monitoring and an immediate reaction to any hazards. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation is a growing phenomenon which will entail innovations and will bring substantial change to all sectors of the economy. I fully agree with Mr Varela when he describes globalisation as a phenomenon whose repercussions vary according to specific cases. Although, for many, it is a challenge which generates wealth and opportunities, for others, those who have difficulty in adapting to change or are unable to do so, it is a source of problems and discontent. Adaptation to a global economy has had varying effects on the fisheries sector. In fact, in situations such as that of Sicily or Sardinia, some of the traditional coastal fleets, which have grown up and survived in a local context thus far, feel threatened by the impact of globalisation. The work of such fleets is frequently the lifeblood of local communities. Therefore, when we talk of negotiations underway within the World Trade Organisation on the liberalisation of trade, we must take into account the different specific circumstances in order to avoid bringing about total liberalisation of customs duties which could lead to irreparable damage and the destruction of the entire sector. We must, therefore, uphold a tariff policy based on reciprocal trade, taking into account the fact that, in many countries, imports from Europe are subject to non-tariff barriers which hamper the smooth functioning of the free market. Moreover, we must prevent the fishing of certain migratory species which, in Europe, are subject to tying-up periods but which, in other countries, can be fished and then sold on the Community market. It would also be appropriate to revise the system of existing trade preferences, for sometimes the level of development of third countries no longer justifies the granting of these preferences. Finally, we must uphold the European Union policy which makes access to the Community market for products coming from third countries dependent upon access for the European fleet to the fishing waters of the countries with which we are negotiating. Mr President, Commissioner de Palacio, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my full and unconditional satisfaction with the result that has come out of the Conciliation Committee. I believe that the encouraging prospects that have been illustrated here are certainly more significant than the doubts raised by the debate in previous years in committee and within the Council and the Commission, and which have also been expressed here today. What I would like to stress – and in doing so I support what previous speakers said in their speeches – is the political aspect, as well as the emphasis being placed on defining this agreement as historic: we must not forget that it is the same emphasis which, ten years ago, we placed on abolishing territorial borders, which at the time seemed a miracle and which paved the way for real European integration. The agreement reached certainly represents a balanced compromise given the many difficulties and the selfishness of the various sectors which, quite rightly, set down their interests and competences. The result is, therefore, a result that is due to everyone, but I too would like to express my satisfaction that you, Commissioner de Palacio, focused on this objective with great tenacity, together with the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur and also ourselves as members of the committee. The result is satisfactory. The new role of Eurocontrol and military and civil cooperation have been highlighted, but I would also like to stress the interoperability of the European air traffic control network and the issue, no less important – which you, Commissioner de Palacio, emphasised – of the certification of service providers. Similarly positive – the rapporteur Mr Fava mentioned this, and I would like to say that I completely agree with him – is the matter of sanctions for service providers and airlines that breach the provisions of the single sky, with safety objectives set, not just for the benefit of our European citizens but also for the benefit of all those who are to use, and fly in, the skies above Europe. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that I greatly appreciated the Commission's initiative to combine all the provisions on highly migratory species in a single text, although I agree with Mr Piétrasanta that it would have been preferable to wait for the end of the autumn series of fisheries meetings so as to be able to incorporate the decisions taken at the meetings in the regulation. With regard to the species described as highly migratory, the total catches have increased significantly. Indeed, in 1997, 3.5 million tonnes of highly migratory fish were caught in the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans. As we are quite aware, the European Union is an active participant in these activities of fishing the world's oceans. Recently, a number of regional organisations have sprung up which aim to regulate the fishing of these species. These organisations adopt recommendations which provide, amongst other things, for limits to the capacity of some fleets, time and area closures and technical measures on size and weight. If no objections are raised, the recommendations become binding upon the contracting parties. I would, moreover, add that the regional organisations continue to adopt effective measures to resolve various types of problems, such as those listed above, but it will certainly be difficult for them to resolve a thorny problem which is common to all the areas such as the elimination of fishing by vessels flying flags of convenience. Hence the need for a joint action of cooperation between the regional fisheries organisations and the national governments, in order to prevent shipowners, who feel overburdened by the regulations in force, from deciding to fly a different flag. In conclusion, may I draw your attention to and emphasise the fundamental role played by the regional fisheries organisations in this matter where, given the huge scope of the subject and the specific local situations, it would be difficult for the Community institutions to respond adequately to the different requirements, as the regional fisheries organisations are able to do. .–The European fishing sector is currently suffering a series of challenges due to an increase in competition caused by the globalisation of the fish products market. There is also a clear need for greater protection of the marine environment and rational management of exploitable fisheries resources. In this context, it appears necessary to increase international cooperation and ensure that the Community consolidates its undertaking to define a law on fish stocks. The principle tool for achieving closer cooperation is the Regional Fisheries Organisations (RFOs), which play a key role on the international scene but which lack the human resources for the Community to be adequately represented. The RFOs are particularly suitable for achieving the objectives established because of theirregional nature, but, above all, they contribute to the rational management of resources by reflecting the specific characteristics of the fishing areas. In this context, considering the importance of RFOs for the future of the common fisheries policy and the different levels of organisation, competences and development of each organisation, the Community needs to adapt its participation according to their respective characteristics and to harmonise its role within the 30 existing RFOs, in order to speed up transposal of the recommendations adopted by the RFOs into Community law. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the White Paper contains a number of points which are of great, direct interest to Italy such as the issue of Alpine passes, the financing of major infrastructure work, restoring the balance between modes of transport, sustainability and cohesion in Europe. In my opinion, transport policy must help to improve the economic and social situation in Europe greatly, and, in particular, must take into consideration the specific nature of the outermost regions and islands, calling for measures to be taken to improve the disadvantaged situation of these regions and islands as far as is possible and to ensure territorial continuity. During the Essen and Dublin European Councils, 14 priority projects were identified and, without waiting for these objectives to be achieved, the White Paper has added others, clearly dissipating resources. In this connection, I feel I must stress the fact that none of these projects relates to the south of Italy, where the situation is critical, which will be in even more danger of being marginalised by Europe after enlargement. By critical situation, I am referring to the situation of land transport, Trans-European Networks, sea transport, air transport and transport safety in general. In other words, I would like to make it clear that these are regions which have severe structural difficulties and deficiencies caused by inappropriate decisions and policies. I represent in this House the citizens of two major islands – Sicily and Sardinia – which have approximately 7 million inhabitants. I call for the undertakings given by European ministers in the Treaty of Amsterdam with regard to the outermost regions and islands not to be forgotten. I hope that the increasing liberalisation of transport will be accompanied by development guarantees for the disadvantaged regions. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it must be pointed out that this report is being tabled before Parliament at a particularly important historical and political moment in European integration, namely just before the start of the Convention which is to lay the foundations of the new Europe, a Convention of which Commissioner Barnier is an important member. We are therefore especially glad that he can be here today. It must be said from the outset that cohesion policy is a major success story in terms of Community integration. Indeed, it is, has been in the past, and will continue to be, one of the cornerstones of that process. Consistently with the Commission’s second report, we have noted that between 1988 and 1998 per capita GDP in Objective 1 regions rose from 63% to 70% of the Community average – and this is a great success – moreover, the benefits of cohesion have not been limited to direct recipients of related funding but have also extended to countries which are net contributors in terms of exported goods and services. Of course, the process has not yet reached its conclusion. Much still remains to be done and there are difficulties to address and overcome, including, in particular, the scourge of unemployment, which, I am sad to say, is affecting many regions where the unemployment rate has not dropped at all. We need infrastructural investments in order to eliminate the marginalisation caused by geographical location and the remoteness of the islands and the most outlying regions; accessibility is a determining factor in terms of the competitiveness of an area and it needs to be improved, although without incurring excessive environmental costs. In future, cohesion policy must be recast, first and foremost to cater for the changed circumstances which enlargement will bring for all of us, but it is also vital that the future regional policy should be based on the results of Commission documents, particularly the most recent document issued a few days ago, known as the periodic report. I am afraid to say that the gap between rich and poor will grow as, after enlargement, one sixth of the Community population will have an income of barely 40% of the Community average. Preaccession instruments such as ISPA and the Sapard programme have been set up to assist the candidate countries, to enable them to prepare for the new situation of which they will have to become a part; these have been essential tools for the transition from candidate countries to Member States. However, we need to promote a genuine regional development policy. In this regard, I feel that the European spatial development perspective can serve as an important technical source of major integration and development. There are two key objectives to pursue: solidarity towards the new Member States and avoiding penalising, indeed protecting, those currently benefiting from cohesion policies. A major effort therefore needs to be made in terms of solidarity – especially political solidarity ensuring that all the peoples are involved and are provided with the requisite information – in economic and financial policy. The 'statistical convergence' must not be mistaken for 'real convergence' by the current beneficiaries, who will certainly not automatically become richer simply as a result of the accession of poorer regions. We need administrative methods which will improve efficiency; we need to streamline, clarify and facilitate the demarcation between the role of the Commission and that of the regional and national levels; it will be necessary to simplify procedures increasingly and we need greater subsidiarity and more decentralisation. It will also be essential to rationalise the support instruments by reducing the number and size of funds and better coordinating Community policies and cohesion policies. Regions which continue to lag behind in terms of development, measured in terms of unemployment and other criteria in addition to  income, must be maintained under Objective 1. Lastly – and this is a point of contention which prompted wide debate – the allocation of financial resources must be increased or, at least, revised and brought up to a sufficient level: the threshold of 0.45% is an absolute minimum below which it is impossible to go. We hope that Parliament and the Commission will both call for a increase in the budget dedicated to the future resources of cohesion policy. . – Mr President, I have taken the floor briefly for personal reasons and I would like Dr Lund, to whom this appeal is addressed, to be so kind as to listen to me. In the first place, after a long university career and coming from a region in the south of Italy, I consider myself to be a man of honour, of the highest intellectual and moral integrity, and I always work for the general good of the patient. Secondly, as a neurologist, my brief diagnosis is that Mr Lund may have suffered temporary minor loss of memory regarding our agreement. I repeat: I agree to include the definition of ‘unpaid voluntary donation’ in recital 23, but I consider, as I said in the meeting attended by the Commission and the Council, that, ultimately, this should be taken into account by the individual Member States. If Mr Lund agrees with me on this point – and I feel the important thing is this – I would leave his proposal totally unchanged but I would conclude with an oral amendment at the end to the effect that ‘this should be taken into account by the single Member States’. I feel that, in this way, Mr Lund, we who have worked together with great enthusiasm and commitment with both your and my group, might resolve an issue which is extremely important to both the donors’ and the patients’ associations. Absolutely right. Mr Tannock is presenting that amendment. –  Mr President, I would like to heartily congratulate Mrs Emilia Müller on the extremely well-balanced report she has produced. Indeed, as a research scientist, I cannot fail to appreciate the scientific rigour with which such a sensitive subject, where there are so many sometimes conflicting positions, has been treated. I would like to thank the Commission for accepting the amendment I tabled on the need for good manufacturing practice to be followed in the preparation of the different vitamin and mineral supplements, for that is the greatest guarantee of quality in terms of consumer protection. Similarly, an excessively permissive position was not adopted on the doses to be used, and rightly so; indeed, the framework of the recommended daily intake was used in specifying doses, thus avoiding encouraging the idea that the greater the dose the greater the effect. As a pharmacologist, I must point out that, both in terms of pharmacokinetics and in terms of pharmacodynamics and toxicology, for example, excessive doses can have the opposite effects to those desired or can even, if taken over long periods, harm major organs and systems of the body, which means that there is absolutely no need to increase the doses of mineral vitamins to the maximum level tolerated. In conclusion, Mr President, in my opinion, Parliament can adopt once and for all the document adopted by the Commission. Mr President, I was asking the House to decide – because the House is sovereign – whether I can change a sequence I regard as illogical. I therefore insist on putting my proposal to the vote to see who is in favour and who is against. Mr President, I am extremely satisfied with the exceptional results achieved by this Parliament and in particular with the work that has been carried out in recent days, which has shown significant, positive interaction between the various institutions. My warmest thanks therefore go to Mrs Grossetête and Mrs Müller, Commissioner Liikanen, and Mr Brunet, as well as to Mr Silano from the Italian Presidency who intelligently and openly contributed to drawing up these compromises that have finally been accepted. As we know, the main aim of all of the institutions is finally to have new legislation that allows European citizens to have equal opportunities and to have access, as soon as possible, to new, more powerful drugs, which are more selectiveand more easily tolerated than existing ones, hopefully at a reasonable price. I will focus on just a few points. As regards the composition of the management board of the European Drugs Agency, the current compromise proposal is preferable both to the initial Commission proposal and to the one from the rapporteur Mrs Müller, which, in my view, contains major deep-rooted conflicts. The management board, as approved, will be predominantly institutional – as I had personally wished for on a number of occasions – with the addition of two representatives from the Patients’ Association and two from the Doctors’ Association. Furthermore, I am satisfied with the length of the data protection period because this agreement is, in my view, very well balanced and will, on the one hand, give new impetus and incentives to European industries to invest more in scientific research and, on the other hand, will allow them to respond to ethical requirements, by implementing a solidarity policy towards developing countries and also towards some of new Europe’s accession countries. The agreement reached to see a further data protection period in the case of a ‘switch’, as well as in the case of new therapeutic indications for well-known medicinal products, is also a step in the right direction. Another point of the agreement regards the development of an EMEA centralised procedure for the marketing authorisation of new medicinal products. As I have stressed on numerous occasions, I agreed with the initial Commission proposal and I am convinced that new medicinal products should in future be subject to authorisation by the EMEA. Finally, I hope that in Europe the pharmacovigilance system, which I outlined as a pharmacologist and that guarantees maximum protection of citizens, will be made more efficient and transparent. Mr President, Commissioner, first of all my sincere thanks to the chairman, Caroline Jackson, for giving this report preferential passage. Equally sincere thanks go to all the shadow rapporteurs for the optimum cooperation there has been, and thanks, too, to the Commission officers, the representatives of the various associations and all those Members who have contributed to improving this important and sensitive directive with excellent amendments. The directive fills a void which has existed in Europe up to now around standards of blood quality and safety. The objective of this directive is primarily the protection of donors and patients, finally making it possible for all the Member States to have the same standards which ensure the maximum possible level of quality and safety of blood and blood components, not only for blood available in the countries of the European Union but also for blood imported from third countries. The directive provides for continuous updating, at least annually, of laboratory tests to identify bacterial or viral pathogens and other infective agents, as well as upgrading to the most sophisticated technology for safer and more effective sterilisation of blood and blood components. There are also recommendations to the Member States to strengthen scientific research in the sector. The existence of a new European directive which provides for the same standards of quality in the individual Member States will facilitate the free movement of blood from one European Union country to another and remove uncalled-for restrictions on donors moving between countries. High standards of quality and safety must apply during all stages in the transfusion chain, from donation to inspection by means of specific laboratory tests, collection, processing, storage, distribution and utilisation of whole human blood and its components. The quality and effectiveness guarantees must therefore cover the suitability of blood donors, plasma and their components, the transfusion structures, the qualifications and training of medical, technical and nursing staff and the checking, inspection and control mechanisms, as well as a system for ensuring the traceability of blood from donor to recipient. The European Parliament provides for the person responsible to have a qualification in medicine, preferably with a specialisation in haematology or transfusion medicine or related medical specialisation. In order to gain a better understanding of the importance of monitoring each stage in the process, it is worth considering the unfortunate, terrible, adverse reactions which have occurred and which we hope will never occur again, for example AIDS, hepatitis B and C and other, sometimes fatal infections, like anaphylactic shock or endotoxic shock. The Commission has accepted the rapporteur’s proposal to delete the annexes, as they cover extremely complex technical matters. They should be updated periodically by a simple and flexible mechanism. Finally, the principle by which all donations should take place on a voluntary non-remunerated basis has been strengthened by numerous amendments from Parliament. However in my opinion, Commissioner, the priority is to safeguard the needs and requirements of patients. In fact, in view of the sadly limited number of donors still, and Europe’s lack of self-sufficiency in blood, if all forms of incentive for donors were immediately banned it would create enormous, even fatal, difficulties for patients. The shortage of blood and plasma is a well-known problem in Europe. That is why I hope the House will approve the amendment by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party which upholds the principle of free and voluntary donation on the one hand, but allows a transitional phase for achieving that principle on the other. An oral amendment by Mr Lisi states that by the end of December 2008 all donations must be voluntary and non-remunerated. Individual Member States must encourage the achievement of that principle, but sufficiently gradually to avoid any possible catastrophic effects on the public. As regards imported blood – Amendment No 43 – it should be specified that the criteria this amendment refers to relate to the quality and safety of the blood. In conclusion, Mr President, the guarantee of high standards of quality, effectiveness and safety of blood provided for in the directive will mean greater peace of mind for European Union citizens about any treatment with blood, as well as greater confidence in the European institutions and the national authorities. –  Madam President, I want to use my speech to thank Commissioner Busquin for the exceptional opportunities he affords us by maintaining a continuous relationship with the European Parliament. We certainly think the programme as a whole is going well, but it does need improvement. That is the task we must undertake together. Improvement is needed, for example, in the general approach, which is still too bureaucratic. The components of the programme need to be clarified, and so, in my opinion, does the redistribution of the financial architecture. In my opinion, the extremely urgent, serious, emergency issues relating to human health must certainly be considered priorities. When we debate networks and centres of excellence, then, I am sure the Commissioner will also see the need for dialogue with Parliament. As far as our parliamentary committee is concerned, we have an idea for a whole series of centres of excellence to be active in Europe. I therefore believe this continuous relationship can enhance the whole programme and make it possible to find the answers to urgent questions like those raised by Mrs Jackson and Mr Bowis, for example. In other words, we should not be working in our own little sealed compartments. We have put together a European public health programme which can certainly be extremely useful to the Commissioner, and I am sure he has largely taken it into account already. –  Mr President, as a scientist on loan to politics, as I like to describe myself, who has worked in the most advanced laboratories in Italy and elsewhere and who has worked with highly advanced countries such as the United States and Japan, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her extreme sensitivity, her competence and her enthusiasm. I would, of course, also like to thank all the members of the committee, irrespective of their political party, and, in particular, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude on behalf of the academic world to Commissioner Philippe Busquin for the extreme sensitivity he has shown in creating, at last, a European common research area.  The creation of a common research area in Europe will, at last, make it possible to fully exploitnetworks of high quality centres and achieve that critical mass which is essential both for the progress of knowledge  and to provide practical answers to the man in the street: answers which cover a range of issues, from the control of terrible illnesses such as AIDS or cancer to neurodegenerative diseases or injuries caused by environmental pollution and so forth. This is why we support the Commissioner! Dear Commissioner, what a challenge! We will keep fighting in order to overcome that red tape which tends to delay the achievement of these goals.  The adoption of the amendments I tabled will greatly promote recognition of the common research area and boost its efficiency. Thus, the first amendment, which calls for at least 3% of the gross domestic product of all the countries of the European Union to be allocated to research, represents a great victory and will allow us to compete with the United States and Japan.  The second amendment I tabled on behalf of the poor, vulnerable and abandoned regions, the Objective 1 regions of the South, i.e. to invest 5% of the unused regional funds – which would otherwise be taken back – to benefit those regions, will, at last, make it possible to exploit the excellent human resources available to us and close the gap in infrastructures and technology between these regions and the regions of Europe. The third amendment, which was also approved by our friend Mr Novelli – whom I would like to thank – will apply tax exemption and, thereby, at last make it possible to further increase the level of research carried out in all sectors. Commissioner, I would therefore like to finish by paying tribute to the new scientific research structure which you have introduced. On 20 June, two Nobel prize-winners, Rita Levi Montalcini, holder of the Nobel Prize for neuroscience, and Renato Dulbecco, will pay tribute to this initiative, in recognition of the fact that, at long last, in establishing the research area, you have conferred great honour on all research scientists. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I hope with all my heart that this report, into which Mr Liese has poured so much energy, will have a natural birth without the need for forceps like the report on blood, which had long been the subject of controversy but for which we succeeded in finding a solution after many years thanks to active, intelligent, enthusiastic cooperation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council. I shall mention just a few points this evening – four, in particular. Firstly, I feel that it is right – as Mr Liese said – that the donation of cells and tissues should be on a voluntary basis and unpaid, a principle already endorsed when the report on blood was adopted. However, where industry has helped to improve the quality and conservation of cells and tissues, for example by using genetic engineering techniques to make tissues histocompatible, it is right to allow for appropriate payment. Secondly, I hope that Amendment No 83, proposed by myself and Mr Liese, will be adopted. It calls upon the Commission to draw up new legislation on the use of retrodifferentiation to create stem cells from adult cells as soon as possible. The retrodifferentiation of adult cells, achieved by transferring their nucleus, rather than to an egg cell without a nucleus, to a medium rich in nutritive elements and other growth factors, could make it possible to overcome the current ethical problems connected with the therapeutic use of stem cells from human embryos. Thirdly, as regards the use of stem cells for research purposes, I hope that the rules laid down in the Sixth Framework Programme will always remain in force and that we do not let anything in by the back door today that should not be there. Fourthly and lastly, I support the Commission’s proposal that the directive should cover the use of cells and tissues for research purposes where this is carried out on human beings but not where experimental research is carried out  or on animal models. I would therefore call upon the rapporteur, Mr Liese, should Amendments Nos 7 and 19 be adopted, to introduce more flexibility at second reading to avoid unwieldy administrative procedures slowing down research in Europe in key fields such as pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics, for example, whose objective is to develop new drugs which are much more effective and have no toxic action. –  Mr President, I will be very brief, for we have discussed this report at length, and just highlight new points which have emerged from a very heated debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. This is actually the twenty-third amendment of Council Directive 76/769 relating to restrictions on the marketing of substances classified as carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction – a directive, therefore, which seeks to protect consumers’ health and to harmonise the common market in products with the same characteristics. As stated in Annex I, the proposal relates to 25 new substances classified as category 2, 14 of which are considered to be carcinogens – cobalt salts, some cadmium salts, benzopyrene and some azoic dyes which have been recorded for years in literature as having carcinogenic properties have, at last, been included – three of which are considered to be mutagens and eight of which are considered to be toxic to reproduction. As well as substances such as these, the ban is extended by the Commission to preparations, that is to mixtures or solutions of these substances. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, particularly Mrs Schörling and a number of other Members, would like to see the ban extended to the marketing of products and articles containing these substances, such as toys, textiles or flooring, too. I would stress that I am opposed to the idea of extending the ban to products as well. Consider the damage it would cause, not just in economic, commercial and industrial terms but the psychological damage too, should people learn that one of these substances – an azoic dye, for example – is present in an elegant tie, whereas, in actual fact, the carcinogenic substances are never released from that tie and the health of the person wearing it is therefore never placed at risk. I will therefore confirm our position. We are opposed to Amendment No 1, tabled by Mrs Schörling, which was only endorsed by the Committee on the Environment by a very small majority and which states that ‘the Commission should extend the ban on substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction...to products...’. We are also opposed to the first part of Amendment No 2 – the first seven lines – which states once again that ‘...the ban should be extended...to products...’. However, we accept the second part of Amendment No 2, which seeks to put pressure on the Commission, recommending that the Commission submit a proposal to prohibit the use of products containing mutagenic or carcinogenic substances where there is scientific evidence that these dangerous substances are actually released from the products and absorbed and accumulated by the human body in concentrations with mutagenic, carcinogenic or toxic effect. I believe that this recommendation will contribute greatly to the protection of consumer health and the environment, and I hope, Mr President, that the Commission and the Council will be able to incorporate it. –  Mr President, I appreciate the consistent way in which Mrs Roth-Behrendt has developed her report and, in particular, the need to bring to an end a debate which has lasted for many years now. I also share the public's concerns regarding animal experimentation; when this is a matter of repeat trials on active ingredients and principles which have been known for years and are already on the market, then the sacrifice of more animals serves absolutely no purpose. However, Commissioner, when, as I point out in an amendment supported by over 50 Members of Parliament, it is a matter of new cosmetics containing new ingredients which have never been tested in the past in order to establish their toxicological profile in laboratory animals, then, as a scientist, I am convinced that it is essential to carry out an initial set of experiments on animals before cosmetics are used by human beings and before they are placed on the market. If new cosmetics are not tested on animals, I would like to make it quite clear that this could lead to potentially toxic risks for men, women and children alike. There would be a risk of toxic effects on the liver and nervous system, and even cancer. And who would be responsible then, my dear Commissioner? For all these reasons, I strongly urge the House to adopt an amendment tabled by myself and 50 other Members, which calls for barriers not to be placed in way of the progress of science. As a scientist, I would like to make another point, dear Commissioner, and that is that, although it is important to develop, improve and finance alternative methods, they will never, never – and I am saying this as a scientist, as a man who has worked in laboratories for 35 years – they will never be able to reproduce the complexity of an animal or human organism. Finally, it would appear absurd, moreover, both in scientific terms but also in terms of existing international agreements, to prevent the marketing in Europe of those very cosmetics which are the safest because they have been tested on animals in the past. For all these reasons, dear Commissioner, I support your report, the Commission's report, which is not a hit-and-miss report but a report based on the recommendations of an international scientific committee. I therefore support it and I call upon Parliament to adopt amendments which would enhance it and which would make it possible, at last, for the entire report to be adopted so that this debate can be brought to a close. –  Mr President, first of all I should like to thank Commissioner Busquin for his extraordinary commitment and for the enthusiasm he has managed to raise in the European Parliament for the creation of a European Research Area. I should also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Caudron, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, Mr Van Velzen and Mrs McNally, for their contributions and the respect they have shown towards those individual Members who have sought to improve this framework programme with their amendments. The text originally proposed by the Commission has been considerably supplemented and rejigged, now both specifying more clearly the research priorities in Europe in the various sectors and rejigging the initial financial architecture. With regard to the biomedical sector, I must express my satisfaction with the EUR 500 million increase given to biomedicine, not just for genome and post-genome research but for all research aimed at adding to our understanding of the molecular mechanisms at the basis of diseases as well. I should like once again to affirm a fundamental idea already expressed by Mr Trakatellis, which is that no research in Europe can be more important or deserve greater priority than that which concerns people’s health and their physical and mental suffering. That is why I now ask Commissioner Busquin, on behalf of the whole scientific community and of a number of Nobel prize-winners, such as my friend Renato Dulbecco, Rita Levi Montalcini and John Vane, to maintain this increase in funding for biomedical research for the next five years. Through scientific research we can at last, thanks to new technologies, combat terrible, hitherto incurable diseases such as cancer, AIDS, Alzheimer’s, Creutzfeld-Jakob disease, heart disease and so on, not least by using advanced technologies, as specified, for instance, in the Trakatellis, Purvis and Nisticò amendment, which embodies a good balance that should gain the consensus of the whole House. .– Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Müller and Mrs Grossetête for their work and for the goodwill they have displayed in working on reports on subjects which are certainly difficult and complex for all but the experts. The primary objective of all the institutions – Parliament, the Commission and the Member States – should be to introduce, at last, new legislation which is better than the previous legislation and which will provide all patients, including those suffering from serious, terminal illnesses, with as rapid access as possible to new medicinal products which are more powerful and easier to tolerate than existing medicinal products, to alleviate their suffering and extend and improve their quality of life. In the short space of time available to me, I will focus on just a few points. As regards the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, I am completely opposed to the proposal regarding the membership of the management board. A management board such as that proposed by the Commission, and by the rapporteur, Mrs Müller, too, would certainly be doomed to failure. The presence on the management board of members representing the institutions and, in addition, of members with conflicting interests – such as industry, patients and insurance companies – would only lead to confusion, wasted time and major disputes. The second point I would like to make concerns the centralised procedure, where evaluation is carried out by the European Agency. The concept of ‘new medicinal product’ needs to be better defined, Commissioner. What is meant by the term ‘new medicinal product’? Does it refer to a medicinal product which has the same structure as existing medicinal products but with a very small change, or does it actually refer to medicinal products with a new chemical structure? I hope that you and the Council will think again on this matter. Mr President, after this report on the legislative package regarding medicinal products – a report that, as we have seen, made veins and pulses tremor – my report is like drinking a relaxing cup of camomile tea. I am in fact extremely satisfied, and I would, therefore, like to thank both the Council and the Commission, and also all the shadow rapporteurs, in particular Mrs Roth-Behrendtwho I am sorry to say is not here today because she has the flu – and she apologises for her absence – and of course all the Members who contributed to improving this directive. The directive, as adopted, finally brings order to an area that is very confused and much debated. On the one hand, it precisely states the scope of the directive and excludes the use of herbal products as provided for in the other directives; on the other hand, in the interests of consumers and their health protection, it specifies characteristics regarding quality and good production practice. Whilst the value of therapy with traditional herbal products must be recognised, it must also not be forgotten that inappropriate use can lead to the emergence of undesired side effects, sometimes serious ones. So far, for example, the ‘Food and Drug Administration’ has registered about 2 900 cases of toxic effects, including, if you look closely, 104 deaths predominantly caused by abuse of ephedra, as well as serious side effects of other products that are used daily such as St John’s Wort, ginkgo biloba and also ginseng. This is why it was important to adopt a directive that seeks to protect consumer health which, on the one hand, calls for better quality and safety standards, but also, on the other hand, for it to be obligatory for labels and illustrative leaflets to include rigorous scientific indications that are simple and clear for citizens about the potential toxicity of herbal medicines, as well as their interaction with food, drinks and other medicinal products when taken together. As you know traditional herbal medicines mean those that have been in use for at least 30 years, of which 15 years in countries of the Community. Nevertheless, at the request of an individual country – and this was a reason for improving the directive – and with a reasoned opinion from the Technical and Scientific Committee for Herbal Medicinal Products of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA), the period of use of 15 years can be significantly reduced. Another positive aspect is the creation of a Committee for Herbal Medicinal Products as part of the EMEA. Parliament clearly indicated how this committee should be distinct from the Committee on Proprietary Medicinal Products. It should deal with classification, with preparing a list of traditional medicinal herbs, with updating lists, with preparing relevant monographs, and with assessing dossiers in the event of disputes at national level. At second reading, Parliament proposed and also adopted two amendments. In particular, an initial amendment inserted in the recital intends to clarify, somewhat unnecessarily, the scope of the present directive by specifying that this only regards traditional herbal medicinal products, whilst the use of plants or herbs for food use fall under the current specific European legislation for food products. The second amendment is merely a specification: it concerns inserting the word ‘traditional’ when talking about herbal products. Both of the amendments were then adopted by the Council, as appears from the communication to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy of 8 December 2003. After all, the current directive defines the harmonised legislative framework for all countries of the European Union in favour of free movement of traditional herbal medicinal products within the Community. This guarantees, furthermore, the maximum level of public health protection on the basis of documentation requested regarding quality, efficacy and safety. –  Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, I would like to start by thanking our friend, John Bowis, for his excellent work on the White Paper on food safety and, in particular, for including the various amendments tabled by different political groups. In my opinion, they enhance the original report of the Committee considerably. The establishment of an independent, high profile European Food Safety Agency is a substantial step which satisfies the need of all the citizens for guarantees on the quality and safety of food products. The neurodegenerative damage to man's central nervous system caused by the consumption of beef or veal – as has been mentioned this morning – from animals suffering from mad cow disease, the recent dioxins alert in Belgium, the high levels of pesticides and herbicides in the environment and the presence of other microbiological and chemical pollutants with potentially cancerous effects arouse in the public a strong sense of alarm and sometimes anxiety. The establishment of a European Food Safety Agency will contribute greatly to achieving a high level of protection of citizens' health. I would like to end by thanking all the political groups – the Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats, the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance – for accepting a joint amendment initially tabled by Mr Fiori and myself which gives greater meaning to the very existence of the European authority. It must genuinely be a centre for coordinating the network of national agencies which, in turn, must activate and coordinate a network of centres of excellence for food safety at the level of the individual regions. The purpose of this network of laboratories will be to monitor on a continual, daily basis, the quality and safety of food products – exactly as Mrs Roth-Behrendt said just now – and I agree with this approach. The network must be as close to the citizens as possible and, in this way, their faith will be restored in the European national institutions. –  Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate President Prodi on the scientific rigour, but also on the high degree of transparency which characterised his address. Obviously, I share the premises of Commission Decision 640 of 23 September 1999 which highlighted that on the basis of WHO findings, dioxin is one of the most carcinogenic substances in existence. This is why the WHO recommends keeping the acceptable daily dose at 1-4 picograms per kilogram of body weight. And yet, as a scientist and as a politician, I cannot help but feel perplexed and concerned by the conclusions arrived at in this decision, in other words, a maximum ceiling of tolerance set at 200 nanograms of PCB per gram of fat, both in poultry, in meat and in pig derivatives.  I wonder, Mr President, who can guarantee – albeit with this point of reference for PCB at hand – that the levels of dioxin present will not harm people? Basically, the danger is not only linked to the levels, but also to other pharmacokinetic characteristics typical of these compounds which have a half-life of around 5.8 years, maybe even 7 years. This means that they linger for dozens of years after intake. Therefore, after continuous intake, there certainly will be an accumulation which can be dangerous. I therefore think that the directives issued by the Commission which you lead should cover permanent checks on dioxin levels but also other pollutants, in all the food we eat. The same goes for the air we breathe and the water we drink. Taking all this into account, I think then that clear directives are in the interests of citizens and consumers so that people’s levels of exposure to dioxin and PCBs – which belong to the same class as dioxins – are as low as possible.  In conclusion, I agree with what Mr Florenz said about a European agency. It is something that would be extremely useful, but would achieve little, Mr President, if it were not organised across the Union, as close as possible to the citizens following what I myself suggested to the Finnish Health Minister. And so we must have highly specialised laboratories in every European region that are close to the citizens and which can scientifically guarantee what we eat, drink or breathe each day. And this can all be done, as I have already clearly said, in specialised laboratories already in place in universities. – Mr President, I will be very brief. All I want to say is that we are in danger, as has been emphasised, of repeating the same things. We will be repeating the same things in ten years' time because there have been considerable delays in conducting scientific research into prions. We have known about prions for 15 years Commissioner Byrne, but after 15 years we do not know which molecular mechanisms are responsible for neurodegeneration, we do not know if they pass through the placenta barrier, we do not know if they pass into milk, we do not have rapid tests –  Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Emilia Müller, and Mr Corbey and Mrs Roth-Behrendt too, for the courage they have displayed, despite the immense, absurd amount of pressure to which they have been constantly subjected by people with no scientific knowledge and no integrity. I would like to inform Commissioner Byrne that, in order to speed up the adoption of this directive, I have withdrawn an excellent amendment which sought to ensure the safety of consumers, particularly, in that it specified that all food supplements should be prepared according to good manufacturing practice. This amendment was intended to ensure that food supplements are prepared in such a way as to guarantee not just the highest quality of ingredients but also their innocuousness when taken repeatedly over long periods of time. I therefore call upon Commissioner Byrne to deliver a formal undertaking to the effect that the provisions of the regulations to be drawn up stipulating that food supplements must meet high quality and safety standards in order to prevent small artisans – or health quacks, even – from marketing low quality, potentially dangerous products, will be made clearer and more explicit. In view of Parliament’s clear, great responsibility in matters of the citizens’ health, we must be highly focused in our work in order to ensure that all the individual Member States of the European Union are provided with rules making high standards of quality and safety a priority. One last plea to Commissioner Byrne: in calling for this new documentation we should request that it be differentiated according to the composition of certain products, for this would reduce the expenditure for small and medium-sized businesses considerably. . –  Mr President, I am in favour of an amendment to Amendment No 19, an oral amendment – in this way, all the positions would be respected – ending with the words: ‘this should be taken into account by Member States’. In this case, I would be in favour of the amendment and it would therefore be a good compromise agreement. –  Madam President, the European Parliament has, on a number of occasions, expressed strong feeling about this matter and declared itself to be opposed to the use of laboratory animals when experiments are repeats of experiments which have already been carried out in other technologically advanced countries, when alternative, internationally approved methods exist and when the products in question are not strictly necessary, as in the case of cosmetics. Directive 86/609 establishes boundaries and standards which the individual countries of the European Union have to respect in order to ensure maximum protection for animals: I hope that these are applied throughout the European Union. We must remember, however, that the people who devote their lives to scientific research are skilled professionals, as are the Commission’s scientific consultants, who are therefore fully aware of this responsibility and perform experiments with the noble aim of eliminating diseases which are still incurable and fatal. Moreover, we need to acknowledge that, for certain specific purposes, it is still necessary to use subhuman primates today. It is necessary for the purposes of assessing the effectiveness and safety of Aids vaccines – every year, another two million people die – for the production of monoclonal antibody vaccines to fight diseases such as cancer, polio, tuberculosis or malaria, and where there are no alternative methods in existence. To prohibit these types of experiments on primates would be to jeopardise the lives of a great many children and adults, Commissioner, depriving them of drugs and vaccines which are essential for the preservation of their lives. I have tabled three amendments. I am going to withdraw the second, but Amendments Nos 1 and 3 stand as before. Amendment No 1 is particularly important to me, and I therefore hope that reason will prevail over emotion tomorrow, for No 1 is of fundamental importance for the protection of human health itself. If Amendment No 1 is not adopted, I shall regrettably be forced – as I have already told the rapporteur – to abstain in the final vote. Mr President, I welcome the remarkable work and flexible, astute approach of our rapporteur, Mr Liese, who, from a somewhat rigid starting position, from strong ethical principles, has endeavoured to achieve, with the support not only of myself but of the entire PPE-DE Group, as balanced a compromise as possible on a very sensitive subject, the use of human embryos and human embryonic stem cells in research projects under the Sixth Framework Programme. As a research scientist, of course, I can only support the progress of science, in the primary interest of patients who have, for years, been placing their hope in new technologies, as has been said, which may provide a cure for or control debilitating, sometimes irreversible diseases such as Parkinson’s disease, spinal lesions which can cause paraplegia, tetraplegia, Alzheimer’s’ disease and so on. That is why I want to thank Commissioner Busquin for his prolific efforts to achieve what is, without a doubt, a difficult compromise. I have to say that, recently, at the specific request of the Italian Minister for Scientific Research, the Italian bioethics committee, chaired by Professor Francesco D’Agostino concluded that it was ethically legitimate to remove stem cells for therapeutic purposes from embryos which can no longer be implanted. The decision that we will be called upon to take in this Chamber only concerns the funding of the Sixth Framework Programme and, therefore, relates to a fairly short period of time. However, I have good reasons for thinking that the amendment adopted by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, which provides for the funding of research using supernumerary cells, will not be unanimously endorsed by the Council, with the risk of a minority block and the extension of the current moratorium. This would be even more damaging to public research in Europe, which would remain in its current state of uncertainty and lack of regulation. This is why I drew up a new compromise proposal, in order to find some common ground between scientific demands and ethical principles: indeed, my proposal – put forward by the PPE-DE Group, moreover – on the one hand, bans the funding of research projects which provide for the use of human supernumerary embryos, and, on the other, allows research scientists to use in experiments stem cells and stem cell lines from human embryos which are already available in laboratories and which were taken from supernumerary embryos before 27 June 2002. I feel that, only in this way, can we make it possible for research scientists to proceed with preliminary comparative investigations, which are essential for the purposes of the future use – or non-use – of embryonic stem cells. I therefore hope that reason will prevail over emotion and prejudice in tomorrow’s vote in this Chamber, in the higher interest ofpatients’ health. –  Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Purvis on his excellent work in committee. It was an intelligent, integrated operation which interpreted and respected the different stances of the members of the committee, including their ethical concerns. For my part, as a scientist, I greatly welcome both the specific intrinsic value of the report, which, at last, places Europe on a level with the countries which invest more in scientific research, and the new horizons which are appearing in the fight to eradicate terrible diseases such as certain neurodegenerative diseases affecting the central nervous system. Moreover, in the agrifoods sector, the adoption of my amendment, which stipulates that genetically modified foods must be subject to obligatory mutagenisis, carcinogenesis and toxicity tests before they are placed on the market, will go some way towards restoring the citizens’ confidence at last, especially their faith in the institutions and the political world. I would like to thank John Purvis once again for consenting to the adoption of a number of amendments I tabled, which seek to ensure that our human resources are properly valued and enhanced, particularly young researchers, and that young researchers are offered attractive career prospects which are on a level with those offered by the United States of America. To sum up, I feel that the Purvis report can be considered a valuable contribution to that complex, diverse mosaic which is the European Research Area, which, together with Mr Busquin and Mr Liikanen, we are doing an excellent job of establishing in Europe and which will make us competitive and enable us to take up this world challenge. – Mr President, I would like to amend the beginning of the amendment, where it reads ‘Member States shall report to the Commission on these measures every two years’. I would like ‘every two years’ to be changed to ‘every three years’. . –  Mr President, Mr Liikanen, we are delighted that, at last, after so many years, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has adopted the proposal for a Commission directive on traditional herbal medicinal products, which I am pleased to see takes a responsible, scientific approach. First of all, I must thank the shadow rapporteurs of all the groups, particularly Mrs Roth-Behrendt for her competent amendments, as well as my other colleagues, Mr Bowis, Mrs Doyle, Mr Schnellhardt, Mrs Müller, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten and Mr Whitehead, for their constructive help in improving the directive. Thanks to the directive we are examining, it will, at last, be possible to register traditional medicinal herbs in the individual European Union Member States through a simplified procedure, provided that – as the Commissioner stated – they meet certain effectiveness and safety requirements. The directive both recognises the full worth of medicinal products of plant origin and, at last, puts some order into a highly confused and controversial field. For instance, the scope of the directive is specified and the use of traditional herbs in other areas, such as foods, food supplements and cosmetics is excluded. In addition, for the sake of safeguarding consumer health, certain features of quality and good manufacturing practice are specified that must be complied with by both medicinal herbs produced in European Union Member States and those imported from third countries. Parliament has decided to recognise that medicinal herbs are still an inexhaustible source of active ingredients for therapeutic use. Nonetheless, while the therapeutic value of drugs of plant origin must be recognised, it must not be forgotten that improper use can give rise to a whole range of undesirable and seriously toxic side effects, which, I am afraid, may even be lethal. In this respect, Commissioner, the US Food and Drug Administration has so far recorded about 2 900 cases of toxic effects, including 104 deaths, principally due to the misuse of ephedrine, a drug that releases catecholamines, causes tachyarrhythmias and can lead to heart failure. The Food and Drug Administration has also stressed the lack of quality control for such herbs that come onto the market from distant countries like China and India: most of them are, I regret to say, adulterated with a number of contaminants. This is why Parliament and the Commission have attempted to ensure that the directive will be directed mainly at consumer health protection, both by requiring high quality and safety standards and by making it compulsory for labels and information leaflets to provide citizens with simple, clear information on the product’s potential toxicity and possible interactions with other drugs and foodstuffs. We draw the Commissioner’s attention to the fact that, by traditional medicinal herbs we mean those that have been used for at least 30 years, at least ten years of which within the Community and 20 outside, as suggested by Parliament. As a specialist in the area – I am a pharmacologist – I believe that ten years’ use in Community Member States added to 20 years’ use outside the Community is sufficient to assess any potential toxic effects. I am therefore in favour of reducing the 15 years laid down in the initial Commission proposal, but I do not agree with Chris Davies’s amendment, which does not provide for at least ten years’ use in the European Union, not least in that, given the genetic make-up of different populations, without extensive use in the Member States severe toxic effects might still emerge. Another positive aspect is the creation of a Committee for Herbal Medicinal Products at last. As you will have noticed, Commissioner, Parliament is concerned that this committee should be independent and given the same powers as the Committee on Proprietary Medicinal Products. I hope Parliament’s request will be accepted so that the EMEA can, as always, carry out its work calmly and efficiently. –  Mr President, I would like to express my disappointment and regret, and in saying this, I think I am speaking for the way other Members from the first legislative phase feel. At the second reading stage, the Members from the first legislative phase cannot make any contribution to improving the content of provisions which will then be adopted by Parliament, which clearly creates a deep sense of frustration. But this frustration becomes deeper still, more bitter when, in the light of new scientific evidence, such as in the case of ozone-depleting substances, bureaucracy and emotion take priority over politics and science, and do not render admissible amendments that are new and sound from a scientific point of view.  This is why I am asking all the Members to adopt Amendment No 34, already tabled in committee by Mr Bowis and Mr Sacconi and signed today by 32 Members. The amendment that we intend to have adopted regarding the inflexible and closed position of the rapporteur, Mrs Hulthén, and those who blindly support her, calls for a short postponement, until 1 January 2004, of the ban on HCFCs in fire protection systems. These substances exhibit a very low potential for depleting the ozone – 1200 times less than halons – and they are much better tolerated by the environment than substances such as HFCs and PFCs, which are unfortunately permitted by Parliament despite the fact that they are more detrimental to the environment because they have a high potential for global warming and linger in they atmosphere, for as long as six to seven thousand years.  These conclusions are shared by high-level scientific bodies at international level, such as the Cairo Conference of 1998, the contracting parties of the Montreal Protocol, the Panel on Ozone Depletion of 1999 and the Ministry for the Environment of Great Britain. The gradual banning of HCFCs called for in the amendment, along with the well-founded scientific reasons, also recognises social reasons, because a lot of people risk losing their job. This is why I am asking for your support. Mr President, I would like to corroborate what Commissioner Byrne has just said, with great authority, gravity and professionalism. Whether the donation is voluntary or not does not affect safety. Safety – and Mr Trakatellis, another man of science, has confirmed this – depends on the quality and sophistication of the tests. Today we are concerned about prions because there are still no very advanced tests: there has only been one article published in . I hope that soon, through the flexible and rapid updating mechanism, those tests too can ensure safe blood, but certainly that does not depend on whether a donor is a volunteer or receives an incentive. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I will focus once again on a number of what I feel to be key points. The Commission’s proposal to allow a data protection period of ten years must, in my opinion, remain a solid, immovable pillar. This position is well-balanced and will provide European industry with new incentives and impetus to continue to invest new resources in the development of more effective, safer medicinal products and make them competitive at international level at last. I feel it is important to have a sufficiently long period of data protection for well-known medicinal products too, wherever there are new therapeutic indications. As I said before, I do not support the line taken regarding the membership of the management board, which I believe should be made up solely of institutional representatives. I therefore call upon you, Commissioner, and the Council to come up with a balanced model for a management board which can work calmly, free from dispute or conflict. I am amazed, reading Amendments Nos 153 and 154, for example, to see that the directive still mentions ‘traditional herbal medicinal products’. I am the rapporteur of another report on traditional herbal medicinal products, and so I do not support Amendments Nos 153 and 154. However, Mr President, I am in favour of removing the requirement to re-license products every five years. This is an excessively bureaucratic burden. I hope that we will, at last, have a system of active pharmacovigilance operating throughout the territory which will allow us to introduce continuous monitoring carried out by highly qualified experts – Europe is teeming with clinical pharmacologists – to ensure that any toxic side effects are made known as soon as they occur. . –  Mr President, I would like to express my immense satisfaction at the adoption in committee on 23 April last of the directive setting quality and safety standards for blood, essentially without any significant shift from Parliament’s position and amendments. At last, I feel that a directive can be adopted at second reading which provides the greatest possible guarantees, particularly for patients and consumers, of the quality and safety of blood and its components in order to avoid infections and complications such as those which have caused so many scandals and disasters in the past. The adoption of a new European directive laying down uniform quality standards for blood will, at last, allow the free movement of blood and its components throughout the countries of the European Union and the removal of unwanted restrictions on the movement of donors from one country to another. There will have to be high quality and safety standards for all the stages of the transfusion process, from donation to testing by means of specific, updated laboratory tests, to the collection, processing, storage, distribution and use of human blood and blood components. As I am sure you will all remember, the point of the directive which was most critical and most disputed in our committee and in the House concerned what are known as ‘voluntary unpaid donations’. In my opinion, the common position adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy resolves all the disputes over this point. Indeed, Article 4 states, according to the principle of subsidiarity, ‘This directive shall not prevent a Member State from maintaining or introducing ... more stringent protective measures .... In particular, a Member State may introduce requirements for voluntary, unpaid donations, including the restriction of imports of blood and blood components’. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy deleted the clause ‘provided that the provisions of Article 30 of the Treaty are met’. A new amendment has now been tabled by the socialists to the effect that all the Member States may prohibit or restrict imports of blood and blood components to secure a high level of protection of health and to achieve the objectives laid down in Article 19(1), provided that the conditions laid down by the Treaty are met. This seems to me to be a good, acceptable compromise. With regard to voluntary and unpaid donations, Article 19 of the common position lays down a number of specific provisions, including, in particular (Paragraph 1) that Member States are to encourage voluntary and unpaid donations and ensure that blood is in so far as possible provided from such donations. I feel that this is a very balanced provision and this position has already been endorsed in committee. Article 19(2) lays down in general terms that the Member States are to inform the other Member States and the Commission of the actions taken by them to achieve the objective set out in Paragraph 1. In this regard, I would like to table an oral amendment requiring the Member States to provide this information every three years instead of every two years, for this tallies with the text of a subsequent article. In addition, still on the subject of voluntary unpaid donations, some of the Members called for the Council of Europe definition to be included in the text, particularly in Article 3. I broadly support the Council of Europe definition but I feel that it is sufficient for reference to be made to it in recital 23, precisely as it is currently worded, to the effect that this definition ‘should’ – not ‘must’ be taken into account by the Member States. I therefore oppose both Amendment No 7 and Amendment No 19, which seek to include a literal, rigid definition of ‘voluntary and unpaid donation’. Indeed, I feel that some flexibility is necessary in order to encourage donors. Commissioner, each Member State has a different attitude, different traditions and a different culture when it comes to the definition of ‘unpaid’, which I feel must be wholly respected. It is not for Europe to impose rigid definition criteria on the individual Member States. The important thing is to have enough donors to achieve the most important objective, which is to avoid a shortage of blood and blood components. Another point of controversy concerned the responsible person. In my opinion, there should be a compromise amendment giving Member States the freedom to choose the type of qualification required of the responsible person, in line with the principle of subsidiarity. In conclusion, I hope that this directive will, at last, see the light of day and be adopted. . –  Madam President, I share the position expressed by Commissioner Busquin, but it is Parliament’s wish to reduce the marketing of these substances, which are potentially dangerous to the environment and to human beings. Amendment Nos 1 and 2, to the recitals, represent a desire and an instruction by Parliament. As for Amendment No 3, we are against it. Mr President, as rapporteur I would like to ask you and the House to accept my proposal to vote on Amendment No 75 before Amendments Nos 55 and 56. This is to make the sequence of amendments logical, given that Amendment No 75 can replace Amendments Nos 55 and 56. There will also be an oral amendment, which I support, to Amendment No 75, presented by Mr Lisi and Mr Santini, and an Amendment No 43, presented by Mr Tannock and Mrs Korhola, which I also support. –  My heartiest congratulations to Commissioner Busquin on his excellent relationship with Parliament and on the effectiveness and intelligence with which he is preparing to establish the European Research Area and the Sixth Framework Programme. He is working resolutely towards high quality research, towards greater recognition of the value of the research profession and towards freedom of research. The creation of networks of excellence, increasing the mobility of researchers and setting priorities in the neuroscience sector – witness the tragic situation of BSE and Alzheimer's Disease and gene therapy to control as yet incurable diseases – are key parts of the project. I hope that the rapporteur – who has done an excellent job, although the time frames and the deadline for tabling amendments were a question of "blink and you've missed it" – will, together with Commissioner Busquin, accept one of my requests, which is aimed specifically at avoiding the brain drain from Europe to the United States of America and other competitive countries. I am convinced that it is only by means of economic and social incentives, making the research profession more competitive with that of the United States and combining it, as is the case in Italy, with senior management posts, as we do for judges, that we will, at last, be able to attract young people and to offer them a position with a future and profound respect for their dignity and the role of research scientists in Europe. The next item is the Council and Commission statements on Chechnya. I would like to welcome Mr Frattini, President-in-Office of the Council, to the Chamber. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Mr Färm and Mr Stenmarck for their perceptive work. As rapporteur dealing with the implementation of the 2002 budget, I would like to return briefly to the subject of the RALs. I listened to what Commissioner Barnier said to us but we must not disregard the fact that, quite apart from the seasonal factor, which might account for the current exceptionally high level, which will, we hope, fall as much as possible within the space of a few months, we have EUR 15 billion more than we had this time last year. The problem of this huge stack of unimplementedpayments must be addressed. I have seen the document, the communication sent to us by Commissioner Schreyer and Commissioner Barnier – for which I thank them – and I am afraid that it may well be a little too optimistic. I feel that this subject requires specific attention because, looking at the matter objectively, we are blocking a set of resources when, really, what is absolutely essential is a spring-cleaningoperation which might shed light on the matter, especially where commitments made many, many years ago are concerned. The commitments which have not been implemented must be cancelled, expenditure must be reprogrammed and the barriers removed. This may well be the most important point, for we are talking about simplifying procedures – and we have discussed this in the context of the resources to be earmarked for natural disasters too: it really is extremely difficult for our citizens, our businesses and our public administrations to use Community resources. However, Commissioner Barnier mentioned what I believe to be an extremely valid consideration, and that is the responsibility of the Council and the Member States’ governments. I will end by thanking the Minister, the Council representative, for his amenable contribution to the meetings of recent months. I fervently hope that this favourable climate will remain throughout the short-term future as well. The next item is the report (A5-0292/2003) by Mr Lisi, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds due to the use of organic solvents in decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products and amending Directive 1999/13/EC [COM(2002) 750 – C5-0632/2002 – 2002/0301(COD)]. – Thank you Commissioner Bolkenstein. I too, along with the rapporteur and the Members, regret the way this important debate has been managed. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Mr President, I refer to the Boogerd-Quaak report for which, moreover, the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has been convened today for 7 p.m. Before Easter, Mr President, I wrote to you to submit a series of points that, from a procedural and regulatory point of view, do not seem to me to be in line with our Rules of Procedure. I cited your responsibility as President, pursuant to Rule 19(2) on checking the conformity of reports with our Rules of Procedure. Specifically – and here I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Gemelli, who could not be here today but who I know wrote to you last week – the Committee on Petitions was not even consulted, that is to say it was not asked for an opinion on the report. We are clear about the lack of a legal basis and yet we have a genuinely unique situation whereby significant reference is being made, in this report, to a study document drawn up by a third party not authorised according to the standard procedures for our Parliament. It is a document which, moreover, claims to be entirely provisional since the situation has only been examined in eight out of 25 countries and since the comparisons that are due to be carried out at the end of June have not been completed. This is why, Mr President, I wonder how this report can be debated in this sitting and I ask you, therefore, to refer it back to the competent committee in order that the Committee on Petitions can make its substantial contribution. I would like to mention that this is not a responsibility of the House. Checking the appropriateness according to the Rules of Procedure is the responsibility of the person presiding over the institution, and is not in any way subject to a majority vote. You understand that at the basis of democracy, and even more so for a Parliament that is the ultimate embodiment of democracy, it is inconceivable that obligations provided for by the Rules of Procedure should be avoided by using majority voting. –  Madam President, first of all, I, too, should like to thank Mr Mulder for the work he has done with such great balance and commitment that it has achieved a substantial consensus within the Committee on Budgets. The 2004 budget is very much a continuation of the 2003 structure. The main objective for next year is to provide sufficient funds and a sufficiently well-structured system to cope with not only the challenge of enlargement but also the new responsibilities that an enlarged Europe will have to take on on the world stage. I should like to focus on just a few points, because many things have already been said. I would mention, in particular, the support that Parliament is reserving for the reconstruction effort in Iraq, especially after the recent UN vote; the confirmation of its commitment to Afghanistan and the reaffirmation that ongoing programmes must be supported and maintained, despite the current difficulties; and the principle whereby aid to developing countries should be precisely targeted, especially in the case of priority objectives such as combating poverty. I therefore feel it is essential to ensure that the Tacis, LRRD and MEDA programmes are preserved, and I see a need for a new instrument to update the policy of proximity and to put it into practice. Lastly, I would mention the protection and promotion of children, especially those who are victims of wars and natural disasters. Finally, I should also like to thank the Commission, which has, once again, been extremely open to working with the Committee on Budgets, and I hope that, by next year, we will have succeeded in this challenge. The next item is the Commission statement on p – Mr Schulz, this is a subject on which I believe the House has given its appraisal. To a great extent we agree with your position. The President is aware of it, since he spoke to you about it at the beginning of this session, and so I am sure steps will be taken in this direction. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, can I have a speaker for the motion and one against? Thank you Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place today at 12 noon. – I have taken note of that, Mr Jarzembowski; in any case, it has already been brought to the attention of the competent services.  ***   ***   *** We will forward your comment to the President, Mr Ford. That concludes the vote. I will ask the services to do what they can, Mr Gröner. If that is an official request for referral, we will have one Member speak in favour and one against and then the House will decide. That concludes the vote. The next item is the joint debate on the following reports on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries: - (A5-0168/2003) by Mr Hudghton, on the proposal for a Council regulation for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms [COM(2002) 672  C5-0026/2003  2002/0275(CNS)]; - (A5-0165/2003) by Mr Stevenson, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the management of the fishing effort relating to certain Community fishing areas and resources and modifying Regulation (EEC) 2847/93 [COM(2002) 739  C5-0030/2003  2002/0295(CNS)]; - (A5-0162/2003) by Mr Fava, on the Commission communication to the European Parliament and the Council on the Action plan to counter the social, economic and regional consequences of the restructuring of the EU fishing industry [COM(2002) 600  C5-0073/2003  2003/2039(INI)]. That concludes voting time. That concludes the vote. I would like to ask the chairman of the relevant committee to give his opinion. – I am afraid I must remind our guests that the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure do not allow those sitting in the gallery to show either agreement or disagreement with what is being said. Mr Korakas has asked to speak on a point of order. Mr Korakas, I do not intend to reopen a debate. The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0154/2003), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on transboundary movements of genetically-modified organisms [15546/1/2002  C5-0081/2003  2002/0046(COD)] [Rapporteur: Mr Sjöstedt]. – That concludes the votes. I agree with you, Mr President. I believe that it is appropriate for the committee to consider the issue, but above all – and I am also saying this on behalf of my colleague Mr Gemelli – for replies to be given based on your assessment, Mr President, on the strength of the details that the services will provide you with. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that, yesterday, 17 June, was the twentieth anniversary of the arrest of Enzo Tortora. I expect that this name will not mean much to many of the Members, but it will certainly have great significance for the Italians. He was a very famous television personality, elected as a Member of the European Parliament to the ranks of the Radicals of Mr Pannella. He was fully acquitted, after many years of legal proceedings: he was the victim of judicial error and media persecution, of an abuse of media power. This is something which, I regret to say, still happens today in many countries. I would just like to pay tribute here to his civil campaigns and to Mr Tortora himself, so that his memory is not lost in this House too. – I am pleased to announce that Mr Christopher Smith, Member of the United States Chamber of Representatives and Chairman of the War Veterans Parliamentary Committee, is in the official gallery. Mr Smith is going to meet with a large number of the Members during his time here and we hope his visit to Parliament will be fruitful. Thank you Mrs Wallström. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon. –  Mr President-in-Office, you spoke of a great Europe and, indeed, with the arrival of the new countries, we are experiencing a moment of Europe’s reconciliation with its own history and its own civilisation. Europe will only be great, however, if it can preserve its ability to compete in the economic field. As you said, Europe will be able to exert influence if it can act decisively. If, today, there is a ghost haunting Europe, it is the risk of losing its competitive ability on a world scale. I therefore applaud your mention of the Lisbon strategy and also the reference in your programme to competitiveness in the service of shared prosperity. Since Lisbon, Mr President-in-Office, three years have been wasted – and I mean wasted. That is why it is right to seek new lines of development and new economic instruments, as you have done. We need imagination, we need the ability to see beyond what is obvious, and therefore the proposal to build up our infrastructure, both tangible and intangible (such as human resources and research), by mobilising private resources as well as public funds is the right road. It is also necessary to bring the subject of a sustainable pensions system to European Union level. Many of us, in this Parliament and outside, are convinced that your Presidency will be the key to success in this critical period in the construction of a united Europe. I should like to remind those who today have brought us the venom of a certain mediocre kind of Italian politics that in a democracy it is the citizens’ votes that give legitimacy, and nothing else. Perhaps for them the concept of democracy is too recent for them to have adopted it completely. We, as Italians and Europeans, are proud that you are going to lead Europe for these six months. I wish you every success in your work, Mr President-in-Office! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to speak about the report on Romania. When having talks in recent weeks with the rapporteur and other Members, I tried to improve this report, but I must say that this attempt did not succeed, and this is why I have tabled some amendments on which we will vote in the House tomorrow. It seems to me that this report is not very balanced, that it is inaccurate and inconsistent with what our Parliament has maintained to date. Given the shortage of time, I will just concentrate on two aspects. Firstly: the issue of children in institutions and the issue of adoption. The serious nature of this issue should lead us to make serious and balanced assessments of the efforts made, of the improvements achieved and of what remains to be done. Above all, claims that have not been proven should be excluded, if we do not want to offend a friendly country and if we do not want our Parliament’s credibility to be lost. Rigour is of course needed, but not prejudice. Secondly, I do not agree with those who – in the name of totally understandable demand to reorientate the Romanian Government’s policy on some sensitive issues linked to European integration – fundamentally reject the results achieved to date. I should not like to think that these hurried and ungenerous judgments were influenced by the cost of enlargement to include countries of the Carpathia and the Balkans. If this were the case and if there were political short-sightedness of this kind, then I would like to mention – as Mr Daul did this morning in the House – the 50 million who died during the world wars of the last century. I believe that the only way to avoid the future risks that the recent war in Yugoslavia too has shown to be potential and real is to make progress in terms of integration. Rigour is of course needed, but so too is understanding of the efforts made and the results achieved. It will be much easier for a state to become fully legitimate within the EU than outside it. I believe that 2007 must remain the target for Romania and Bulgaria. This is not a certainty but an objective, even if – as Commissioner Verheugen said – the keys to this success lie above all with Sofia and Bucharest. – The debate is closed. The vote will take place at 12 noon. – We will check all the language versions, Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna. – I now put the motion that the text should be referred back to committee to the vote.   *** –The next item is the report (A5-0022/2003) tabled by Mrs Encarnación Redondo Jiménez, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation concerning monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the Community (Forest Focus) [COM(2002) 404 - C5-0351/2002 - 2002/0164(COD)]. – The next item is the report (A5-0197/2002) by Mrs Figueiredo, on behalf of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, on the application of the gender equality work programme (2001-2005) [2001/2266(INI)]. Thank you Commissioner. To conclude the debate, I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Rule 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.  (The sitting was closed at 11.50 p.m.) – Ladies and gentlemen, I shall bring all the observations that have been made to the attention of Pat Cox. I personally agree with a great many of them, and I am sure a clarification will be given. – The next item is the report (A5-0249/2002) tabled by Mr Berenguer Fuster, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the draft Commission regulation on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to state aid for employment [C5-259/2002 – 2002/2126(COS)]. Thank you Commissioner. The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon. The next item is the report (A5-0341/2003) by Mrs Stihler, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on measures for the recovery of cod stocks [COM(2003) 130 – 2003/2104(INI)]. – I will pass on your comments to the President, Mr Korakas. – Thank you Mr Staes. I would like to express our full sympathy for Dr Erkel’s father. – I too would like to thank Mr Söderman for all his work over the past few years. The debate is closed. The vote will take place at 12 noon. The debate is closed. The vote will take place at 11 a.m. We shall now proceed to the vote. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is less than two months since we were first informed of the spread of this disease and there have already been over 7 000 cases reported and over 500 deaths, with more than 20 cases of infection reported in the Member States of the Union. Minister, the Extraordinary Council called for by the Italian Minister for Health, Professor Sirchia, yielded results which, although not minimum, were minimal and unsatisfactory. The outcome was a proposal to introduce medical protection in airports within a deadline of two months to check passengers  for these countries, in other words people returning to China, Hong Kong and the other areas where there is an epidemic situation already declared. In addition, the Extraordinary Council decided to create a European Coordination Centre to address health crises, which is only due to become operational in 2005. Well then, I believe that, despite the requests made essentially by Italy and Spain, we have given in to purely economic reasoning. It was you, Minister, who said that a difficult climate for the economy and society would be created. We believe that the citizens’ health is a question of much more than the mere short-term economic impact, although that is, of course, a consideration to be borne in mind, but it must not take priority over the citizens’ health. Mrs Roth-Behrendt rightly said that we know nothing about the disease, and that is true, but we have not set up a European-scale filter which could be genuinely uniform and effective. Then Mr Panella pointed out the absurdity of the fact that we are equipped with a cutting-edge system for preventing animal epidemics but we have nothing for human beings. Everything is still in the hands of the states, which are giving economic considerations priority over respect for citizens’ health. It has been said that Spanish influenza claimed hundreds of thousands of victims. That is not true, ladies and gentlemen – it claimed over 20 million! More recently, in 1957, Asian influenza claimed a million human lives, and then, in 1968, the Hong Kong variety caused 700 000 deaths. I wonder what we are doing to monitor the risk of an epidemic situation occurring in countries such as Africa or India, whose health systems would be totally incapable of controlling it at all, considering that even Toronto has been thrown into crisis. I therefore believe, Minister, that the Council or the Commission must change their tune, speed up their decision-making and alter the citizens’ health policies. – The next item is the Commission Communication on streamlining the annual economic and employment policy coordination cycles. Thank you Commissioner Diamantopoulou and Commissioner Solbes. The debate is closed. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. As you said Mrs Muscardini, the English text is the correct one. The competent authorities will be informed of the matter and I can tell you that you will be able to have the text in all languages before the vote. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon. – I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned. – The rapporteur has asked for the floor. That concludes voting time. That concludes voting time. – Mrs Berès, as you know, the decision is taken by the Conference of Presidents. The possibility exists, Mr Pannella, but it is not a requirement. I have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon. Mrs Muscardini, I do not know the answer to your question. If you want to initiate formal investigation proceedings then you can. If not, we will proceed to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote. –Mr Ribeiro e Castro, the competent services will look into it. However, the House has voted and we cannot go back on that vote.  ***  ––  *** – The next item is the report (A5-0256/2002) by Mrs Smet, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Legal Affairs, on the scoreboard on implementing the social policy agenda [2001/2241(INI)]. Mr President, I believe that I can say to you and to my fellow Members that the explanations that Mr Barón Crespo has just given are the most pathetic that I have heard in ten years of parliamentary life here.  I would also like to take the liberty of noting that, in his letter to Mr Cox, Mr Barón Crespo, when quoting what was published yesterday in the in my name, completely misinterpreted it and changed the wording. This is serious, Mr Barón Crespo, because I wrote that the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has breached some of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I sent Mr Cox a letter, to which he sent a reply, which I answered. The difference between saying ‘breached some of the Rules’ and saying ‘systematic breaches’ is merely one of intellectual integrity, or otherwise. It means saying ‘black’ or ‘white’: it is one thing to raise some points; it is another thing to say that our Rules of Procedure have systematically not been respected. I will take the liberty – in conclusion, Mr President – of making one remark. You said that yesterday the House voted on something that is, in any case, the sole responsibility of the President, but since we chose – or rather, since he chose – Rule 130(3) without considering that paragraph 1, which is binding, says that first of all amendments are put to the vote and then the text, we – or perhaps not we, but someone here whose responsibility it was – betrayed this Parliament’s sense of democracy. – That concludes voting time. – Does Mr Harbour wish to speak on a point of order? –  Mr President, first of all I ask you whether it is right that staff should be sitting on the Council benches laughing and gesticulating. I ask everybody to maintain a respectful attitude towards this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe I have always respected the positions of others: I therefore ask you to respect them in the same way. With regard to Mr Barón Crespo, first of all I had already asked to speak before now, my dear sir, but I was not given the floor. I have to say that I fully endorse what I wrote, because in effect, in fact, one only needs to take a precise look at the numbers to see what the situation is. Then, with regard to Mr Cox’s letter in reply, I have also had to write back to him indicating the points in his letter where he recognised that there were serious shortcomings and defects in the report itself. I therefore respect the President’s decision but, I beg you, do not hide behind a problem that does not exist and which, in any case, is not yours, just because you do not want to respond to a specific request by Mr Hernández Mollar. One final point, Mr President: once again I accept the vote of this House, the vote that you, Mr President, have had taken here today. If, however, we read the Rules of Procedure, it is not up to the House to decide when or how a particular vote should be taken: it is your direct responsibility. As far as I am concerned, then, you asked for advice and then decided independently. It is not the House that can decide on such matters. You should all, please, read the Rules of Procedure and study them. Mr Barón Crespo, the Rules of Procedure are not something from which you can pick and choose; therefore let the person who has the floor and is democratically elected and represents here the citizens of this … Mr President, I think there is always someone amongst us who has discovered democracy too late and who perhaps, therefore, is not familiar either with its rules or with its deeper meaning. That concludes the vote. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. I have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I leave it to the House to decide The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0284/2003), on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the re-use of public sector documents [7946/1/2003 – C5-0251/2003 – 2002/0123(COD)] (Rapporteur: Mr W.G. van Velzen). Ladies and gentlemen, personally and on your behalf, I would like to welcome the members of the Kyrgyz parliament delegation who are in the official gallery and who are taking part in the fourth meeting of the European Union-Republic of Kyrgyzstan Parliamentary Cooperation Committee, taking place in Strasbourg, and I extend to them a warm welcome to our institution. This delegation is made up of four members, headed by Mr Sooronbay Jeenbekov, Vice-President of the Kyrgyz parliament.  We welcome the continued development of relations between our parliaments, especially following the entry into force of the Partnership and Cooperation agreement between the European Union and Kyrgyzstan in 1999, as well as the progress achieved by this country in combating poverty and consolidating a democratic state. I am certain that the work of this fourth Parliamentary Cooperation Committee will be a new and important step in strengthening cooperation between the two parties, which are inspired by the same democratic values and which both attach great importance to the requirements of the rule of law.  *** We shall now proceed to the vote.   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***    ***   *** The next item is the report (A5-0278/2002) by Mrs Boudjenah, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the European Parliament’s recommendations to the Commission concerning the negotiation of Economic Partnership Agreements with the ACP countries and regions [2002/2097(INI)]. –  Madam President, this budget has just been described as nostalgic, catastrophic and historic.I believe it is a sound, well-balanced budget and I would like to thank Mr Färm and Mr Stenmarck for their perceptive work. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to points which might seem minor but which concern Parliament’s use of its power of initiative. With due regard for the interinstitutional agreement and the Financial Regulation, the European Parliament is about to vote on new pilot project and preparatory action initiatives, which I believe will be useful for European integration. The first point concerns preparing small and medium-sized businesses for enlargement. I feel this will be an important signal to industry which will make that network of small businesses which is so vital for our economies feel more involved. I am convinced that practical measures would have much more effect than a series of information campaigns. The second initiative which I would like to mention concerns a programme known as ENEA, dedicated to the elderly, which seeks to repeat the success of the Erasmus and Socrates programmes in the context of the movement of the elderly. The innovative nature of this programme lies in the fact that it could develop as an interfacebetween culture, social policies and health and that, if Parliament endorses the pilot project, it will be providing the Commission with the opportunity to create a programme which will encourage dialogue between elderly people from 25 different countries. The last point I would like to mention is the environmental initiative, which, by means of the funding of reforestation measures and the creation of a seed bank, will allow us to promote the mechanism for clean development laid down by the Kyoto Protocol. This project seeks to promote positive measures at European level to reduce CO2 in the atmosphere, while creating an operative structure for the collection and preservation of seeds and plants, many of which would otherwise be lost as autochthonous species,and the use thereof for the purposes of ecological restoration. This will also create employment, for the diversification of farming will certainly pose problems and require new goals to be set. The Commission must, of course, now inform Parliament without delay of the measures it intends to take to comply with the recommendations of the budgetary authority if all this is to be put to the vote on Thursday and again in December. I would like to thank Mr Färm and Mr Stenmarck once again for their work, and I hope that the Commission will continue to seek that close cooperation which we have enjoyed in recent months. –The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Thank you Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. If I may, Mrs Maij-Weggen, I would like, together with the Members, to thank you for your work in the European Parliament over the past few years. The next item is the report (A5-0020/2003) tabled by Mrs Ulla Margrethe Sandbæk, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on aid for policies and actions on reproductive and sexual health and rights in developing countries [COM(2002) 120 – C5-0114/2002 – 2002/0052(COD)]. The next item is the Oral Question to the Commission (B5-0275/2003) by Mrs Jackson, on the progress report on European Union participation in the plan of implementation of the world summit on sustainable development. . – That concludes voting time. The next item is the report (A5-0298/2003) by Mr Michael Cashman, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on public access to Parliament, Council and Commission documents (implementation of Regulation 1049/2001/EC in the year 2002) [2003/2022(INI)]. The next item is the oral questions (B5-0271/2003), to the Council, and (B5-0272/2003), to the Commission, by Mr Elmar Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Foreign and Security Policy, on EU-Cuba relations. – Thank you Dr Tannock. We shall now proceed to the votes. – Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to welcome Oleg Viktorovich Morozov, the leader of the delegation from the Russian Federation State Duma to the European Union-Russia Parliamentary Cooperation Committee and Vice-President of the Duma, and Alexandr Nikolaevich Belousov and Gennady Alexandrovich Gorbunov, members of the Federation Council, who are all in the official gallery. The delegation is in Strasbourg for a number of meetings with our delegation to the Parliamentary Cooperation Committee. I offer them our greetings and appreciation for being here. The next item is the report (A5-0151/2003) by Mr De Roo, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 1999/32/EC as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels [COM(2002) 595  C5-0558/2002  2002/0259(COD)]. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Thank you Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. – Mr Barón Crespo, all these requests will be scrupulously passed on to Pat Cox. – President Bouteflika, I should like to thank you for your official visit to the European Parliament, a visit, as I have already emphasised, without equal and therefore a first. I should like to thank you for your fascinating speech which has touched us all and to which we have listened with a great deal of interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the formal sitting is closed. That concludes the voting. *** Mr Bowis, I will be sure to inform the Presidency of the essence of your speech. I would also like to extend my sympathy to you and your fellow British Members. Sadly, this is a time in which many nations are affected by this terrible wave of terrorism. – The next item is the report (A5-0233/2002) tabled by Mrs Avilés Perea, on behalf of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, on the mid-term review of the 2000-2003 Daphne Programme [2001/2265(INI)]. Thank you Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. – I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned. I do not want to reopen the debate now, so I propose that we proceed with our work. In the meantime, Commissioner, our services can attempt to clarify the situation. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. – I have taken good note of what you have said, Mr Harbour. The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0269/2003), on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council decision on adopting a multi-annual programme (2003-2005) for the monitoring of the eEurope 2005 Action plan, dissemination of good practices and the improvement of network and information security (MODINIS) [7948/1/2003 – C5-0252/2003 – 2002/0187(COD)] (Rapporteur: Mrs Imelda Mary Read). –  Mr President, Commissioner, despite the major steps taken in recent years to achieve genuine European citizenship, a great deal still needs to be done to guarantee equal, fundamental rights to all the citizens. That is the essence of the report before us, an excellent, high-quality, comprehensive report – and I would like to congratulate Mr Coelho – which is, at the same time, a kind of stock-take and revitalisation of the major project seeking to guarantee all the citizens equal opportunities, free movement, residence throughout the Community territory and free access to employment, justice and all rights, making innovative developments benefiting the citizens of third countries too. These basic principles are complemented by the undertaking to provide all the citizens with a real job, a real house, adequate healthcare and prospects of social and other growth in addition to economic growth. Moreover, the recognition of fundamental rights must go hand in hand with the consolidation of measures to combat xenophobia, religious discrimination and discrimination on grounds of sex, race or social condition. A particularly interesting section is that exploring transnational methodologies for achieving practical police and judicial cooperation. As regards these areas of cooperation, innovative proposals are also included relating to the involvement of the different groups of long-term legal immigrants. Particularly topical – as many Members have pointed out – is the concern expressed in a section of the report at the low level of interest hitherto displayed by the European citizens in respect of the European Parliament elections. If we encourage the development of genuine citizenship, this should be the decisive factor which will also lead to greater political awareness among the people at the time of European elections and to the many other forms of direct participation which are becoming increasingly available to all the European citizens. It is important to make the citizens aware that European citizenship – a term which is often bandied about in this Chamber – does not replace national citizenship, which remains undiminished, retaining all its associations of cultural, historical and social roots which connect different races of peoples which, however, are united in a common destiny, the destiny of the European Union. We cannot, therefore, accept the amendments tabled by the GUE/NGL Group, which impose a certainly excessive and dangerous acceleration on the process of integration of citizens from all the third countries, who are resident in Community territory without distinction. This is certainly a desirable development which should be contemplated in the future – that active and passive voting rights and long-term residence permits should be granted to third-country citizens – but the time is not yet ripe for it to be fully implemented, at least for it to be implemented across the board and to include all nationalities. A number of disparities are still present and, not least, where some third countries are concerned, there is no desire for reciprocity of this kind. In any case, it is important that we succeed in establishing a fundamental concept: these issues fall strictly within the sphere of Community competence. Just recently, we read in the press that some Member States appear to be claiming regulation in this field as part of their own national competence. This would be a serious mistake: there cannot be any disparity in the ways major issues such as asylum, integration, the recognition of civil rights – including the right to vote, most importantly – and the right to citizenship are treated within the Union. –  Mr President, item 11 of yesterday’s Minutes refers to a speech I made under Rule 121(a) of the Rules of Procedure. Apart from the fact that I would like to ask the Secretariat why there is no written summary of what I said, I would like to remind the House that I asked the Presidency to make firm representations to Belgian Railways on behalf of Parliament, calling upon them to reverse their worrying unilateral decision to withdraw night train No 299, that legendary train that used to connect the European Parliament’s three places of work – Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg – before, crossing Switzerland and arriving in Milan. This train has been withdrawn by a unilateral decision. Apart from the serious inconvenience this represents for the employees of the European Parliament, this makes things very difficult for the thousands of others travellers who often do that journey, particularly now with the approach of the end-of-year festivities. Since the Presidency of Parliament, responding to a similar speech by Mrs Ghilardotti at the start of the sitting of 5 September, said that they would make representations to Belgian Railways, I would like to know what was done, following both my and my fellow Member’s requests, to obtain the response of Belgian Railways. Is there a follow-up to this type of request? I would also like to know what happened to the speech I made yesterday, for I would like a written summary to be included in tomorrow’s publication. –  Mr President, here, at last, is a report which is genuinely Community-focused, although it takes as a starting point the specific, technical issue of the management of the Union’s external borders. It is a very topical subject, as has been pointed out, if you consider that the Union’s current external borders will be radically changed and extended in May 2004 when the 12 new Member States become part of the political and geographical structure of the current European Union. It is therefore more than appropriate that we should now be proposing the model used thus far on the basis of the consolidated experience of the 15 current Member States before the entry of the new candidates. The Pirker report drops into this wide-ranging framework a number of practical proposals on how to achieve integrated management of our external borders, without interfering in the territorial sovereignty of the individual States but rather defining the ideal formulae for harmonious cooperation. This is an acceptable approach which will involve the creation of a Community corps of border guards in the coming years – not straightaway but after we have fine-tuned techniques and procedures with appropriate measures for training staff and achieving cooperation between the different current corps of border guards. Hitherto impromptu experiments with mixed patrols have yielded excellent results. As far as my country, Italy, is concerned, these have been developed on borders with Member States such as France and Austria and on borders with third countries such as Switzerland too, and with a candidate country, Slovenia. The section which addresses the issue of combating illegal immigration is extremely innovative. This involves a difficult, daily undertaking, particularly on the part of border States such as Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece. However, the problem is everybody’s problem, not just the problem of these States, for, thanks to Schengen, an illegal immigrant who succeeds in penetrating the Adriatic coast has automatic access to many other Member States, at least those in the Schengen Area, which therefore have a major responsibility as well as a great opportunity. Therefore, the rapporteur is right to propose to call upon all the countries to work together to contribute to and bear the costs of external border controls, whether they have external borders or not. Indeed, it would appear to be clear that it is appropriate for all the countries to contribute if we are to achieve an effective control and monitoring service, particularly in the places where the flow of illegal immigrants is currently greatest – a genuine flood of new illegal immigrants is, even as we speak, pouring into the Union – for this is not just a problem for those who are directly involved in the daily fight against illegal immigration: it is also a problem for all those countries which are the automatic destinations of these illegal flows. –  Commissioner, you described this report as very wide-ranging and ambitious. I will take these two adjectives as the basis for a number of minor points for reflection. It is certainly wide-ranging – too wide-ranging in terms of the issues addressed. Is it ambitious? It is not ambitious enough in its conclusions, which are limited to a few political objectives – the same objectives as always. Indeed, the rapporteur puts ingredients that are too different and too unrelated into a cocktail shaker in the hope that the result will be a digestible, well-balanced cocktail with an approach that can be submitted for the approval of all the Member States, an approach including shared, common principles on which legislation and positions can be based in the endeavour to guarantee the fundamental rights of all the citizens. Alongside a few principles which we support, for example in the field of combating discrimination and xenophobia, the rapporteur actually includes an undertaking which is too partisan in the section on freedom, going so far as to place in the stocks the police, the legal systems and the media of some – only some, take note – Member States for events connected with street riots caused by the Black Blocks and their supporters in white overalls. The rapporteur has been influenced by bad counsel of the sort we can easily imagine – by partisan and party interests – and has wasted and bungled the opportunity she had to present a serious discussion on human rights, losing herself in empty tirades and gratuitous accusations worthy of a low-profile debate. The judges and police officers of some of the Member States are described as torturers, accused of beating up innocent people. This is a line which is unacceptable as well as out of place in such an important report as this one, just as the family model the rapporteur proposes is entirely unacceptable. It is in line with her own personal beliefs, but it contrasts with the attitude of the vast majority of Europe’s citizens, who certainly do not see homosexual unions and the right to adopt as the ideal formula on which to build the European society of tomorrow. –  Mr President, my speech, too, concerns the distressing incidents which, I am afraid to say, are becoming more and more frequent along the Italian coasts. In Lampedusa, as another Member has said, they are continuing, even now, to take stock of how many victims have been claimed by the latest boat to sink or by what was, at all events, a genuine tragedy. Laying the blame at the door of the Italian Presidency would appear to be an unimaginative and certainly unusualway of addressing the issue; it may be that the blame lies with the countries which have not taken on board the recommendations and undertaking of the Italian Presidency, those countries which refuse common rules to control immigration, withdrawing into the ivory tower of their sovereignty. However, we, too, have responsibilities, Mr President, and it is with regard to those responsibilities that I want to ask you intervene. Parliament is processing dossiers on combating the trafficking of human beings and illegal immigration, on common asylum rules, on integration measures and on aid to third countries to enable them to mount information campaigns and dissuade their citizens from leaving. These dossiers are still at a standstill. We need to avoid the usual rigmarole of amendments and speed up the process: a crisis must be met with an urgent response, not with the usual irresponsible gentle pace of those who prize bureaucracy above the effectiveness of measures. –  Mr President, I am going to speak on the same subject as Mr Bigliardo but I have something different to say. I am sorry – as I believe we all are – that Mrs Morgantini has suffered such an experience, but not because she is a Member of the European Parliament but because she is a European citizen: in other words, I would be just as concerned for any other European citizen. However, even before Mr Bigliardo spoke, I wanted to ask that, in tomorrow’s debate on the events in Israel and Palestine, the Commission call upon all the European citizens who are not officials of the United Nations, NATO or the European Union to refrain from indulging in macabre tourism out of curiosity and false solidarity. Those who go to a land where there is a genuine war taking place do so completely at their own risk and peril and cannot hope to involve the international community. They do not need any of this sort of tourism down there: our solidarity must be displayed within our own towns and countries and in parliamentary chambers. Two or three delegations of left-wing members of the Italian parliament have been stopped at Tel Aviv airport and sent home again: they did no more than visit the inside of the airport, creating further disturbance and generating further concern. I do not think there is any need for this. I therefore ask the Commission to call explicitly on the European citizens not to indulge in this sort of tourism. –  Mr President, my name is not on the list of those present at yesterday’s meeting, but I was present, as shown by the signatures to all my group’s meetings. I would be grateful if you could have this oversight remedied. –  Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Moraes, for having made himself so available and for his willingness to work together, and I should also like to thank him on behalf of Mr Mantovani, who would have liked to be here and speak but was called back to Italy on a matter of urgency. The dynamics of immigration in the European Union should be seen as part of a framework that takes account of the benefits this brings to all the parties involved. The Irish Presidency also mentioned this point this morning. Migratory flows must be managed so that they serve the interests of both the host country and the country of origin. Management of these flows may in fact be a response, as has already been said, to the democratic and economic development of the Union. We now need to improve the integration of the immigrants – legal immigrants – who represent a resource, but the immigrant populations must in turn respect the fundamental values of their host countries. A proposal has been mentioned to guarantee citizens of third countries legally residing in the Union the opportunity to vote in local and European elections. It is clear to everyone that such a question should remain a matter of the strictest subsidiarity. I thank the rapporteur in particular for the compromise reached with the Member State governments on setting up a quota system for legal entry into their countries, and thus into Europe, to be offered to the countries of origin and of transit as one of the main incentives for negotiation and agreement on readmission. It is very important to get this kind of collaboration. In any case, this complex issue, together with preparation of policy on the management of migratory flows, must obviously be dealt with at European level as quickly as possible. The rights of migrants must be recognised, but only alongside a policy to regulate these flows, which has to be a strict one. In conclusion, Italy has the second highest number of immigrants in Europe and is the only country in Europe to have very long external borders to the east and to the south. The whole of Europe must take stock of the size and complexity of this enormous migratory and social pressure, because the real problem starts in Italy but is immediately and automatically transferred to all the other Community countries. Madam President, Mr Mantovani is stuck in traffic and has asked me to put forward his position as shadow rapporteur, something that I am happy to do. The Cairo Action Programme has pursued important objectives as regards development policy. These are objectives that should, if achieved, improve living conditions in developing countries. Although it deals with an undoubtedly commendable initiative and with an issue that is very complex to deal with, this report does, in my opinion, overlook the principal objective set ten years ago at the Cairo Conference. As shadow rapporteur for our group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I do not believe that the urgent issues that we consider to be equally important have been dealt with adequately. These concern the population change in developing countries, that is to say the issues linked to education and access to training, nutritional problems, hygiene problems, economic growth and emigration. Instead, as is largely clear from the document presented by the rapporteur, Mrs Junker, the report focuses almost exclusively on issues concerning reproduction and sexual education, issues that are indeed very important but that do not necessarily have to be separated from a wider context and dealt with in a sterile manner, especially if these statements are not fully in line with the Cairo conclusions. Too many issues were indeed forgotten, issues that were, at the time, instead seen as key aspects of the structural population change in developing countries in future years. In my opinion, this report – which, I remind you, was adopted with 11 votes in favour and seven against in committee – needs to be reconsidered and must, above all, be brought back in line with what was established at the aforementioned Conference. In order to be consistent with the Action Plan’s objectives, I believe in particular that Recital R b, which stresses the importance and central nature of the family as an element of cohesion and unity in society, must be accepted. Furthermore, I hope, as was strongly suggested by our group, that paragraphs 6, 10, 11, 17, 23 and 26 might be rewritten so that they are more balanced. Moreover, if it is not reworded we cannot accept paragraph 20, which promotes outright abortion without considering national legal frameworks, and it does it specifically through information campaigns in developing countries for safe abortions. There is no doubt that sovereignty must be respected in this sensitive area, as must the ethics of each country, especially in such sensitive issues such as reproductive health and rights concerning reproduction. This is the position of the draftsman, the shadow rapporteur of the PPE-DE, Mr Mantovani. Mr President, the report by Mr Garot is plausible and realistic and, therefore, positive, even if not all of the figures that he reports relate to the different types of agriculture that we have in the Union; for example, the 7% increase in income and the 15.7% decrease in the number of farms does not correspond to hill and mountain farming, where the figures are, unfortunately, very different: only a 1% increase in income, but more than 25% of farms are abandoned. I would therefore like to mention that hill and mountain farming does not represent a secondary aspect of European agriculture as a whole: it covers 20% of the useful agricultural area and 30% of land; and 5% of European citizens live in mountain areas. Leaving the mountains not only has economic but, as we know, also social and environmental effects. Leaving the mountains means endangering a whole system, the hydrogeological balance and the control of forest expansion. It means putting an end to every type of agro-tourism, which would lead to repercussions for valley areas too. What are the possible solutions? To allow fixed and suitable compensation for hill and mountain farmers that takes account of the commitment to multifunctional agriculture; and to launch a specific but comprehensive policy for mountain areas that, for the most disadvantaged areas too, guarantees services and aid to improve the general quality of life and not, therefore, just the economic level of those who choose to live there. The strong push towards rural development – shown in the recent reform of the CAP – gives some guarantee, but it is not enough. The specific nature of mountain areas needs to be explicitly recognised in the Treaties and in structural measures, and we need to have the courage to act with determination to overcome, as far as possible, the restrictions of State aid. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, at this juncture, over and above the measures which need to be adopted immediately, two things will be discovered which are more important than the race to adopt emergency measures, namely how the epidemic started and why it spread so quickly. Mr Kreissl-Dörfler’s report – although acceptable in every other way – does not give us a definitive answer on these points, whereas what does emerge, once again, is the disturbing weakness, the shortcomings of the European Commission’s veterinary control systems, a weakness which has been admitted by the Commissioner himself with great intellectual honesty, which is tantamount to saying that the lessons of the BSE crisis during the previous legislative term have not served much purpose in this respect. It is, however, reassuring to know that the Commission unanimously intends to give due importance to the recommendations which emerged from the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy, of Agenda 2000, as regards animal health, transport and feed, in terms of precautionary and preventive measures to avoid epidemics and, most importantly, in terms of future controls on imports. We agree as regards vaccinations: mandatory vaccinations are not yet feasible; preventive, emergency vaccinations are more appropriate but there must be well-coordinated emergency plans: not plans generated by emotion on the spur of the moment at the height of a crisis but plans which take into account the situation throughout Europe and the historical development of the disease, so that such disasters can be understood and prevented – prevent being a word which needs to be stressed once again in this House. Mr Sturdy said just now that, even today, there are people who do not understand how all this could have happened or where the epidemic came from. At this juncture, at the end of the work of our committee of inquiry and at the end of this debate, it would, in any case, be reassuring to be able to say that we know, most importantly, what to do to prevent a similar scourge occurring in the future. Mr President, Commissioner, I object to mountain regions being labelled as disadvantaged regions, at least as a generalisation. The mountain regions are rich in a number of different kinds of resources – environmental, economic and human – but they need direct, practical aid to enable these resources to be successfully harnessed. According to the statistics, 30% of Europe is taken up by mountains and, with enlargement, this specific feature, this specific characteristic, will account for over 40% of the territory. However, the mountain regions are sparsely populated – inhabited by only 5% of the Community’s population – which means that political pressure from that quarter is relatively ineffectual. It is therefore up to us to lend a hand. It must also be said that not all mountain regions are the same and that the reform of the Structural Funds, with the abolition of Objectives 5a and 5b, has created considerable confusion. Objective 2 is too all-embracing and too flexible, it includes too many items and lumps together the needs of regions which are essentially different. Simplification is not always the best path to take if the rigour of scientific accuracy is lost along the way. In the mountains, there are areas which have priorities common to us all. There has been an example of this just recently: it is in the mountains that we protect ourselves against floods and drought, by safeguarding water resources and territorial integrity. This is an example of how the mountain regions are directly relevant to the interests and needs of all. Well then, what can we do? Commissioner, we must have the courage to provide direct aid, with regard to which the rules governing state aid and competition must be made more flexible; we need to have the determination to safeguard man’s life and presence in the mountain regions as a guarantee of genuine cohesion; we also need to muster the courage to recognise this specific feature of Europe in practical terms, not just in words. How? Maybe by extending the application of Article 158 on islands to mountain regions too. –  Mr President, presenting a common position for second reading could be seen as a purely technical, tactical move to bring us closer to implementing the decisions. However, in this debate, as many other speakers have said too, a number of key points still have to be defined. Indeed, although the Council has incorporated most of the amendments adopted by the European Parliament at first reading, the Sixth Framework Programme lacks specific working time frames and its strategic objectives need to be defined in more practical terms. We must not forget that this programme will have to operate over a decade or so, and so an approximate work schedule and poorly defined aims are completely unacceptable. In particular, the European Parliament’s latest amendments call for more decisive, tougher action against the danger of pesticides – this applies both to the present Member States and those waiting to join the Union – again, there must be a substantial effort to combat the greenhouse effect, the increasing sound pollution that pursues us all the time, wherever we go, the too frequent environmental disasters caused by human negligence, disasters for which it is becoming increasingly difficult to find out who is responsible. Lastly, once again, the European Parliament’s amendments seek to make some of the proposals already mentioned practical reality. I just want to summarise them under at least four basic headings, four areas which have been defined as priorities: climate change, biodiversity, the connection between the environment and human health, and waste disposal. These issues are so vitally important that anything less than total precision and total responsibility on our part would be absolutely unacceptable, and we cannot put off dealing with them to a later date as the Council seems to want to do. –  Madam President, as has already been mentioned, this week is certainly not a normal plenary part-session. For two months, this thing we call war has been in progress, a terrible war against terrorism. This very morning, Italy’s military involvement and its support for the United States have taken on a practical form, for indeed, today, Italian troops are leaving to go and help the United States and all the European Union troops which are actively, practically engaged in the war against this barbaric civilisation. Well then, in the light of this development, to which we must certainly not become used or accustomed, the debate on the agenda, a Commission communication scheduled for Wednesday, seems decidedly inadequate. Madam President, I expected something more! I do not know what is happening to the Members, but when I go home I am surrounded by European citizens, my fellow citizens, all asking me the same thing: “What is your view of these events down at the European Parliament? What can you say to reassure us and allay our concerns?” Well then, I am frankly disappointed by the presence, with all due respect to her, of the Belgian Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Durant, whose remit is transport, not war, and though she will, I am sure, have a dramatic speech from the Presidency to read out to us. I feel that it is almost an affront to Parliament that the Belgian Prime Minister is not going to be here at this important time. Moreover, I would ask you, Madam President, to see whether it would be possible for Mr Solana to be present here too, for he is our foreign policy representative and it is his duty, or rather his obligation, to provide us with clear, practical, specific information. We cannot be content with just another declaration of good intentions or the assumption of a political position. We are at war, but some people appear not yet to have understood the full implications of that fact or the importance of the present time. To give practical effect to this speech, then, I call upon Mr Solana to come to Parliament and tell us clearly what is happening in Afghanistan so that we know not just the details of the military operations but also the extent of our combined endeavours in the field of humanitarian aid to help the communities affected. –  Mr President, before the August holidays I was in Romania, not least in order to carry out a task assigned to me by the Robert Schuman Foundation, of which I am Secretary-General. While I was there, I met groups of entrepreneurs and, in particular, farmers and growers. I received a complaint that I would like to pass on to the Commissioner and all the members of the delegation for relations with that country. First and foremost, the farmers complained of unacceptable delays in the implementation of the ISPA and Sapard programmes, delays which they made it quite clear were due to the poor functioning of the government agency acting as a filter: a lack of basic information, no help in planning the projects, the arbitrary way in which the projects are transferred from Bucharest to Brussels, the exorbitant cost of the little advice available and unjustified delays imposed by a bureaucratic machine which penalises, above all, the outermost areas of Romania, which are certainly the poorest. I would ask you, Mr President, to be so kind as to inform the members of the Romanian delegation of this issue at the Conference of Presidents, and I would ask the Commissioner to intervene as far as is in his power. –  Madam President, this debate is proving to be rather heated even in the discussions going on behind the scenes. The rapporteur is right: this is no longer his report. Proof of this is the fact that it was adopted in committee by 25 votes to 18, but above all the fact that a good 111 amendments were made to it. The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats voted for the motion against its will, and it declared its opposition to all these amendments. I therefore urge the rapporteur genuinely to pursue his original position and to treat the report as no longer his own, no longer the work of our group. Moreover, just a few days ago, at Valencia, the Council addressed the issue of immigration, discussing matters belonging to the second pillar within the framework of the major field of action – the third pillar – of justice and home affairs. It was pointed out that, after the Montpellier talks in May 2000, a programme should be launched – and the Commission has already put forward a proposal – financed by MEDA, a programme of practical actions in the field of immigration. This means that the Council is still at the analysis and assessment stage. Proof of this is the fact that, at the suggestion of Italy and Spain – the two countries which are certainly most affected by this issue – it was proposed to hold a ministerial conference on migration next year. Well then, while the Council is continuing to pursue a careful and cautious approach, we now want to include measures in a European Parliament report which are so advanced that they consider extending healthcare to all asylum applicants and providing for access to the labour market within four months of lodging an application and admission to school for asylum applicants’ children, under conditions, what is more – and the rapporteur also pointed this out – which are more favourable than those applying to the children of residents. Well then, none of this is acceptable, especially not to the countries that are in the eye of the storm as regards asylum applications. The constant attempts to overload a report with too many problems make it unacceptable when all is said and done. I do not feel that this is the way to help those who are entitled to and need asylum. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the statistics are now arriving thick and fast regarding what is, to say the least, a tragic situation. Apart from the figures, though, I think that we should be shocked by the trend revealed by these statistics: this population which potentially has a death sentence hanging over it, despite the efforts of mankind, continues to grow. According to the statistics, it has more than doubled in the last 30 years, and this is what should really concern us. Furthermore, in addition to these people, to those who are in danger of dying from starvation and malnutrition, that is it seems, more than 30 million in Africa and 800 million in Latin – central and south – America, there are the millions of AIDS victims who each day truly represent a historic blot on the conscience of global society, which is unable to provide the necessary amount of resources during aid interventions and which is unable, above all, to make pharmaceutical multinationals forego patent fees and royaltiesat least for emergency products. This endemic situation of poverty, hunger and disease is accentuated by the acute economic and social crises which have trapped these countries in a downward spiral from which there is no escape. The undertaking by governments and private parties to making these countries self-sufficient no longer suffices, and is barely coping with circumstances, with the daily emergency. The economies therefore contract under the burden of public and international debts. In order to tackle this emergency, as we know, the European Union has opened up its markets – in addition to expressing its solidarity – and has granted direct aid, but it is not enough: the efforts of many governments to limit or cancel debts incurred in the past by these countries does not yet go far enough. In this connection, I would like to point out a development which has been overlooked to a large degree: during the G8 Summit in Genoa in July 2001, at the initiative of the Italian Government, the summit of the most developed countries was preceded by a meeting with a large group of representatives from countries with public debt, starvation and poverty problems. Well, this was not a merely symbolic or ritual gesture: that day, almost a third of the large, huge public debt of these countries was discharged. Unfortunately, this result went unnoticed because of the rioting in the streets which attracted all the mass media’s attention. Lastly, I would like to say a few words, in these appalling circumstances, on the valuable, irreplaceable role of the NGOs in all the Community and non-Community countries, which have always been on the front line in this war against starvation and death from malnutrition and AIDS. The Commission really must substantially boost programmes devoted to them. It must be said that, by themselves, these volunteers are achieving measures which are of a much higher quality and is much more convincing than those of all the western governments, and, above all, that they manage to put much more enthusiasm into this work, providing resources and solidarity, firm in the belief, Mr President, that no-one can feel free and happy if the others around them are not free and happy too. –  Mr President, we must be aware that this is a proposal for a directive which only establishes minimum application criteria. That means that its greatest merit is certainly the great flexibility it gives the Member States in allowing them to apply part of their national legislation and part of the Community legislation. However, it could be said that this directive is a case of shutting the door after the horse has bolted. In many countries, particularly Italy, indeed, this type of action has been in use for a long time now in the face of what is in fact a genuine immigration crisis. In this regard, I feel that, once again in a debate of this kind, not everyone has a clear understanding of the distinction between the three types of asylum application and therefore between the persons lodging the applications: in actual fact, there are political exiles, refugees fleeing emergency situations and the usual immigrants seeking work. Clearly, these are three very different cases and the solutions needed to regulate these situations will therefore also be very different. This directive also refers to ARGO and Odysseus: two programmes, father and son, with the same goal, programmes which combine – successfully I am glad to say – legality with a rigorous approach. I have heard some decidedly excessive views expressed in this debate. Someone even went so far as to say that we could move towards a police state. Quite frankly, this is not so: I heard no such fear was expressed in the debate before that. However, it must be said that if a rigorous approach means not a police state but, first and foremost, a guarantee of the proper implementation of procedures for granting asylum; if being rigorous means first and foremost distinguishing between irregular immigrants and illegal immigrants and criminals, distinguishing between honest immigrants and drug smugglers and slave traders, well then, if this is the case, I welcome the rigorous approach, a carefully considered rigorous approach; not least because the well-meaning people have nothing to fear from us being rigorous and asylum seekers will receive only a welcome, understanding and help. –  Mr President, we genuinely greatly appreciate the work of the Commissioner and the Commission in general on enlargement and rural development policy. It is a courageous undertaking, and the transfer of some of the resources supporting the market precisely to the poorer rural areas is timely and positive. As always, when one person benefits, many others suffer. The previous speakers have already mentioned the reasons for regretting decoupling and other technical aspects, which I will not repeat. I would, instead, like to focus on the positive side of these innovations, this courageous step, to address a point which is, I am sad to say, too often disregarded. In actual fact, this openness bodes extremely well for all those who are advocates of development in the outermost regions, particularly mountain regions. This section on rural development is extremely important but its importance is equally greatly overlooked. The word ‘mountain’ does not appear in the Commissioner’s mid-term review, even though, just a couple of weeks ago, he dedicated a two-day seminar to mountain issues. As always, however, the debate was opened and closed without any progress being made. The word ‘mountain’ does not appear in the document we are discussing either, but mountain issues can quite easily be identified in Mr Daul’s document. I congratulate Mr Daul heartily. For example, paragraph 1 of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development’s motion for resolution calls for the development of multifunctional farming. Mountain farming is a diverse and multifunctional typical form of farming. Paragraph 3, which calls for a more precise definition of the objectives of protection of the environment, public health and animal welfare, describes what have always been the parameters of mountain farming, what I would call endemic mountain farming. Above all, however, mountains are implicit in the section on rural development. Paragraph 17 calls for a range of measures differing according to the different types of farming regions. Again, paragraph 18 states that it is essential to preserve traditional family farms and support young farmers in less-favoured areas and the outermost regions. I regret to say that the remote location of mountain areas means that they are always outermost regions and certainly less favoured than the plains. Lastly, paragraph 20 calls upon the Commission to give priority in the distribution pattern to the less-favoured regions, to the regions which are most vulnerable and in need – I would add – not just of development plans but of an investment of trust. This is the situation of the European mountain regions, which make up 30% of Europe’s territory and are home to 5% of its population. The mountains do not want to be a problem. They want their great potential to be a major resource for the whole Union. We must decide to call them by their name. We must have no hesitation in acknowledging their specific situation and, what is more, mention them by name in the new Treaty to give them an anchor and provide a legal basis on which to draw up an  directive. We must start work on a document which provides specifically and exclusively for the needs of the mountain regions. This could be the start of a radical reform which would improve the situation of the mountain regions and all the less-favoured regions, giving them the same opportunities for life and growth as the rest of the Community. I would like to thank our chairman, Mr Daul, once again, not least for giving me the cue to make these observations on a very important matter. Mr President, pursuant to Rule 130(3), I would like to point out that, every time we vote, we are prepared to systematically breach the Rules of Procedure of this House. Indeed, paragraph 3 states that ‘the President may put the original text to the vote first, or put to the vote before the amendment that departs furthest from the original text an amendment that is closer to the original text’. On the basis of the decision taken yesterday by this Parliament, which annulled a good 350 amendments with an arbitrary act, I would like to ask you what we will vote on if a paragraph in the text had to be deleted, since there is no amendment left. We will have a text that is like a lump of Gruyere, that is full of holes, which can only be closer to the truth given the content of this report. This is, however, an extremely serious further breach of the EP Rules of Procedure that we are being forced to commit – or rather those who will vote will be forced to commit – on the basis of the bad decision, taken yesterday by President Cox, not to give a ruling and to make this Parliament decide to put to the vote the original text, understood as the consolidated text that was put forward by the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. That means to say a single voice, that of the left, incorporated its amendments into the original text. This itself is a distortion, to which is added a further one, which I pointed out pursuant to the Rules of Procedure. I would say to my fellow Members – who do not know the ins and outs of this case – that they have one last chance to prevent a serious injustice, a precedent that could become dangerous for the future, by voting to refer this report back to committee or by rejecting it. –  Mr President, as of yesterday, train No 299 no longer exists: the glorious, legendary poor man’s Orient Express, which ran from Brussels-Midi through Luxembourg, France and Switzerland to Milan in Italy, has been withdrawn. This was a historic train, used by countless migrants, and it was a useful alternative mode of travel for us Members of Parliament too, Mr President, for those who, for various reasons – health, time or, we must not be ashamed to admit, even fear – did not and still do not want to travel by air. By a unilateral decision of the Belgian State Railways, this train has been withdrawn. It is not clear why this should happen, at precisely the moment when Europe is trying to promote rail travel over road travel. This is therefore a decision which is to be disputed on two different grounds. As far as Italy is concerned, we are doing our part. Senator Giampaolo Bettamio, whom many of you will remember as a valuable member of the Parliamentary Bureau, has submitted a question to the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure. I urge you, Mr President, to make vigorous representations to the Belgian Government, calling for a reversal of this decision. It seems cruel that such a decision should be taken ten days before Christmas, given that this train was used greatly by migrants going home precisely for the Christmas festivities. Thank you in advance for your help, Mr President. –  Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Commissioner, Mrs Reding, to ask her a specific question. I refer to what must certainly have been a rather embarrassing decision on the part of the Commission to abolish budget heading B3-1026 relating to the field of sport, which supported the programme entitled ‘Sport: preparatory measures for a Community policy in the field of sport’, on the basis of notice No 33 published in 2002 by the DG for Culture and Sport. This programme covered two themes: sport as a tool for educating young people and combating the scourge of doping. Without warning, the Commission said that there was no longer enough money because the funds had been absorbed by enlargement, an explanation which is decidedly inappropriate, particularly given that many projects had already been carried out and also in view of the fact that next year – as you are aware, Mr President – will be the Year of Educating Young People through Sport. This was to be a programme to prepare for the Year of Sport and it has been abolished. I would like to know why. Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again, we have before us a report which has now become rather a routine event. We should therefore all be sitting here calmly, but, as you can see, it is a report which still provokes heated debate after four years. Moreover, we are discussing principles which distinguish a civilised society from a tribal community, and, in this respect, the Charter of Fundamental Rights would seem to be the most appropriate, most equitable, most reliable reference when it comes to principles and values. I endorse the broad lines taken by the report: no to terrorism, protection of prisoners, combating the trafficking of human beings, data protection and protection of privacy, provision of accurate information, immigration, asylum and many other issues like, once again, combating all forms of discrimination. It is a shame that all these issues, these principles, are jeopardised somewhat, adulterated by invasive ideological and political views when they warrant greater respect. Consider, for example, the safeguarding of Christian roots and the traditional family unit – a man and a woman united by the common goal of procreation. Once again, we are attempting to impose on 15 Member States a model which is only accepted by three countries in Europe, and we are doing so, ladies and gentlemen, with force which, although purely verbal, is, nonetheless, violence. It is a shame where the information sector is concerned too, where a serious issue such as this has been defiled by pure political propaganda such as the contribution of the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport – whom I will not name so as not to give them the right to reply – who has defiled an extremely serious subject with the tone and content of a vulgar party propaganda leaflet, behaviour which, moreover, condemns itself. I am glad to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is only an opinion, or rather a set of opinions, which has no legal effect. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, this proposal for a directive, with regard to which I am the rapporteur, seeks to establish minimum common rules to guarantee the provision of genuine financial assistance to citizens who are unable to bear the costs of legal proceedings in which they are involved. This initiative slots perfectly into the project of creating an area of freedom, security and justice within Union territory, within which all the citizens are guaranteed respect for their fundamental rights, irrespective of their financial situation. The original legal basis is Title IV, Article 61 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, which stipulates that the Council, in order to establish progressively an area of freedom, security and justice, shall adopt measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters. The Tampere European Council responded to this call by establishing minimum standards for cross-border access to justice, and we would emphasise this. The Commission has taken a more courageous step, proposing to extend the provision of aid to internal cases as well. The Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has risen to the challenge, appropriating the Commission’s debate on the scope of the directive.Therefore, other internal cases are to be covered by the directive as well as cross-border cases. Thus, the legal basis must be extended and is no longer to be found solely in Article 61 of the Treaty but in Article 65 too. Moreover, the extension of the scope of the directive is also based on the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 47(3), to be specific, which provides that legal aid is to be made available to those who lack sufficient resources to secure equal access to justice. This is the first time we have pledged to provide this kind of aid at Community level. It also gives us a welcome opportunity to invite those Member States – and there are a considerable number of them – which already provide guaranteed, appropriate legal aid for their citizens internally, to start to harmonise their laws in the field. The report, which was adopted unanimously by the Parliamentary committee responsible, goes even further. Indeed, it proposes to extend the aid provided during the actual legal proceedings to the pre-litigation stage too, given that effective mediation, an attempt to achieve reconciliation between the parties can often even obviate the need for actual legal proceedings, reducing, therefore, or eliminating all the inconvenience for the citizens concerned and, most importantly, reducing the costs involved. This two-fold approach could – it is true – lead to an increase in the costs sustained by the Member States. However, the political and social importance of a directive of this nature would – and, indeed, does – justify Parliament’s appeal to the Council to take this step. Here, we have the primary task of identifying the political objectives which will further the genuine development of the Europe of the citizens, the Europe of equality of justice for all. I would like to end by focusing on a last minute and, therefore, somewhat disconcerting action of the Council, which has sent a new text – albeit only informally for our information – which clearly seeks to stress the contents of Article 1, which restricts the scope of the directive purely to cross-border cases. In other words, the Council is – or seems to be – attempting to cast doubt upon the entire process, to stop it in its tracks and to go back to the drawing board. Irrespective of the content of this proposal, which runs counter to the unanimous vote of the Parliamentary committee, this is a serious violation of form and procedure. The Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights has decided, on the basis of a specific vote, to complete the entire process up until the adoption or, at any rate, tabling in plenary of the report based on the text prepared by the Commission, in accordance with the most basic rules of the consultation procedure. If Parliament were to accept the Council’s termination of the process or a proposal for referral back to committee, this would have major consequences in terms of interinstitutional legal relations and also in terms of the consultation procedure, and would be a serious violation of the provisions of the Treaty. The prerogatives of the European Parliament would be undermined and a highly disturbing precedent would be set for the future. Therefore, the process of examining this report must be brought to its normal conclusion; in other words, the report must be put to the vote in Parliament. That is the opinion of the Parliamentary committee. I would like to end by calling directly upon the Commission, if I may, in the person of Commissioner Vitorino, to give its opinion. –  Mr President, it is not the first time that this argument has caused lively debate and equally lively and difficult decisions in this Parliament. It is our job once again to attempt a real balancing act in reconciling as far as possible two opposing demands: the demand to limit the effects of transport, by those who mainly see an environmental cost in this and are therefore primarily concerned with the animals’ health, and the demand to take financial costs into account as well, by those who want to keep transport costs down, but without ever neglecting the physical wellbeing of the livestock being transported. In short, the matter deserves our full attention, but in these difficult judgments it is a relief to note the great advances made by technology, which today provides hauliers – that hard-working, industrious group – with increasingly comfortable vehicles, fitted with fans, mangers and drinking systems with water for rehydration. With these new devices, more comfortable and especially longer journeys may be possible, although there must still be rest periods, which should in turn be increased to up to two hours. Then there is a debate on the problem of unloading and reloading the animals, an operation which does not always achieve its intended aim, which is to help the animals rest. Farmers and hauliers, and also environmentalists, tend to think that this type of operation, especially for small animals – I am thinking of calves – may cause even greater stress than remaining on board, especially on those vehicles that I have mentioned, with air-conditioning, water for rehydration and a ready supply of feed. This too is a proposal that should not be ignored, so as not to make the wrong decision or repeat problems that have already been debated. One would, of course, have to be inside the head or the mind of a calf to be sure of reaching the right decision, but unfortunately a calf does not think and, most of all, it does not vote. –  Mr President, as has already been said, by just five votes Parliament has provided the news reports with one of the most disappointing and shameful pages on our work in this forum: a report entitled ‘on the human rights situation in the European Union’ and which, on the contrary, has violated, or is violating, many of the rights which most affect citizens. Let us consider one of many: the institution of the family, which is, to say the least, distorted by this report; a family model which proposes the free union between men or women of the same sex and liberalised single-parent or, precisely, homosexual, adoption laws. And furthermore, a country is put forward as a model – the Netherlands to be exact – which, in addition to these things, has official euthanasia and liberalised drug policies. Well, if this is the social model which is now coming out of Parliament, I dissociate myself from it and – here lies the weak spot – the majority of Member States dissociate themselves from it too: only two or three indirectly follow the Dutch model. There will now be an institutional deadlock, because neither the Commission nor the Council – they have already announced this – are willing to accept this trend. We have missed an opportunity to be clearer and more coherent. –  Mr President, it seems to be fate. On the final day of the last part-session – 24 October 2001 – we were discussing the reopening of the Mont Blanc tunnel. There was a bit of an argument – some were in favour, such as yours truly, and some wanted to put back the date of this major event. Suddenly, into the middle of the debate came the news of the other incident in the St Gotthard tunnel, an unforeseen incident similar to that which had occurred in the Mont Blanc tunnel and which we had thought would now never be repeated. Those in favour of opening the Mont Blanc tunnel to traffic immediately were once again advocating this line of action on health grounds, basing their argument particularly on a document produced by the operating company, which, pompously – and maybe rightly – stated that the Mont Blanc tunnel, rebuilt after the accident, is now the safest in the world. I remember announcements, official pronouncements, so to speak, describing the St Gotthard tunnel as the most important tunnel certainly in Europe if not in the world. Now we know that a very run-of-the-mill accident was enough in the past, is enough now and will be enough in future to turn these megasafe tunnels into people traps, and the many victims always pay with their lives. It is difficult to apportion blame for these incidents; moreover, that is not for us to do. However, one statistic does need to be mentioned here, for it concerns something for which we and, in particular, the Commission are responsible. Indeed, considering that five times as many vehicles pass through the St Gotthard tunnel as usually run on all the other major routes through the Alps, we are faced with a transport policy error, and that is partly the fault of Europe, for most of the vehicles, particularly the heavy goods vehicles, are European. I would therefore put two questions to the Commission. What has happened to the directive on harmonising the minimum safety requirements for road and rail tunnels? And I would ask the Commission, what has happened to the action plan for an integrated transport policy in the Alpine region? When the answers have been given to these two questions, we can proceed to the usual road versus rail argument. Lastly, Mr President, I do not agree that heavy goods vehicles should be banned from using the tunnel. Road haulage contractors have a right of passage and a right to provide a service as well. Mr President, it is with great interest that I have followed the debate, which tended to give an assessment not only of this year but of this parliamentary term as a whole as regards the field of freedom, security and justice. It is a difficult assessment to make because it has many aspects: there are the political and legal aspects, and then there is the social aspect on which progress must be made. The political aspect involves the will of the Member States; the legal aspect is based on the instruments made available by the Treaty; as regards the social aspect, it has no logical basis whatsoever insofar as it is dictated by the continuous development of the framework in which the European area of freedom, security and justice is to be implemented. In view of the time available to me, I will deal mainly with the political aspect. It is the declared intention of the majority of Member States – unfortunately not all of them – to extend and consolidate the area of freedom, security and justice in response to an increasingly explicit desire on the part of European citizens to pave the way to solidarity and extend the areas of cooperation in relation to the reception of new waves of immigrants, smoothing out the inconsistencies that still exist with regard to the recognition of the right to asylum, citizenship and establishment in any EU country. I am pleased that this attitude can be traced back to the tremendous incentive provided by the demands contained in the Charter of Fundamental Rights for European citizens, which was launched in Nice in 2000 and waiting to be included in the Constitution. It is a document that can be compared to good wine: at first it did not make much impression being rather weak and imperfect but, with the passage of time, the intrinsic quality of the text increasingly emerges wherein we find precise reference points for all the choices and measures required of us in this difficult phase of our history. A further step forward will be achieved by approval at second reading of the directive on the free movement of Community citizens, their rights and responsibilities, of which I am rapporteur. This provides for a raft of urgent measures that must be consolidated in order to be able to deal effectively with the new tasks imposed on us by the increasingly huge and chaotic arrival of citizens from third countries. With regard to the report in question, Mr President, Commissioner, the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has set 18 March as the date for its approval. Almost all the political groups have accepted the rapporteur’s request not to table amendments to the text issued by the Council, in which only 50% of Parliament’s requests are included. Agreement with the Commission has also been reached on that point. We are convinced that this directive, although not perfect, must be implemented during the current term of office, preferring to see the glass half full rather than half empty: in other words, better to have half the requests rather than to refer it back indefinitely. We hope the Council is able to appreciate this responsible position so that citizens may be given at least that part of the reforms which are contained in the text and which constitute, in any event, important steps forward to give legal substance and political dignity to the status of European citizen. –  Mr President, we have a wonderful opportunity in Strasbourg today to refresh our spirit of European community: the  is arriving in Strasbourg. In honour of the introduction of the euro, the  has become the : it started in Groningen in Holland, it has already crossed Belgium, Luxembourg and Germany and, today, it is arriving in Strasbourg, with which it now boasts a consolidated acquaintance for the  was presented in this House during the February part-session. I would like to mark this event by pointing out the great significance of the decision of the organisers of the  to tackle such an undertaking, with the participants crossing half of Europe before entering Italy, and also by informing any Members who may be interested that I still have some passes left to watch the riders arrive, which should happen at around 5 p.m. this afternoon. It is a good idea to get to the arrival point – which is more or less in the  area – a little before the time the riders are due in order to avoid congestion. In any case, anybody who has not yet obtained a pass can enter the area by showing our European Parliament card, for a friendly association has, in fact, been established betweenthe European Parliament and the , an association which involves us all. Everyone is welcome, of course. –  Madam President, when we talk about drugs, we clearly mean out-and-out war. We cannot just be content with a few short battles. The battles we are talking about today are preventing and reducing the damage but, clearly, all these measures are, in any case, dependent upon the success of other measures such as combating drug trafficking and consumption. It must be pointed out that we need to start by addressing a human condition, the condition of drug addicts. We need to change our approach: drug addicts must be treated as people who are ill rather than criminals, and so we need to take lines which are consistent with this view and, therefore, employ treatments which bring about the recovery of drug addicts rather than social exclusion. That is why, out of the two kinds of treatment still being debated, many of us still prefer the more human approach of rehabilitation communities, therapeutic communities, to the administration of chemical substances which are alternatives to or substitutes for drugs. We do not endorse the use of substances such as methadone, except in extreme clinical cases. In addition to medical and pharmaceutical care, we need to provide drug addicts with psychological help too. First and foremost, we need to step up the fight against the network of traffickers who continue, I regret to say, to be on the scene. Turning briefly to methadone, I would say that it is a substitution substance which does not resolve the problem of drug dependence and, worst of all, does not bring about the recovery of the drug addict: it is a bit like drugging up someone who is ill and administering pain killers without ever giving them an operation. Mr Blokland and other Members have also mentioned the unsuccessful results of attempts at liberalisation and legalisation in this field: these kinds of approach must be abandoned. That is why, therefore, I too have taken the liberty of tabling some amendments, which Mr Bowis is kindly going to illustrate during the vote, presenting them to our rapporteur not as replacing but as supplementing the contents of the report. They are amendments which relate, above all, to prevention. Amendment No 60 proposes some ideas for freeing addicts from their dependence, striking at the root of the evil. Amendment No 61 relates to treatments which are not based on drugs but which include a great deal of psychological help for the ill drug addict. Amendment No 62 recommends great caution in providing access to needles, condoms and syringes. Amendments Nos 63 and 64 are on the subject of preventive and preparatory measures, first and foremost, for the people responsible for implementing these measures. Lastly, the other amendments propose measures to combat drugs in prisons, to encourage data collection on prevention and, once again, to discourage substitution treatment, which not only fails to reduce damage and consumption but increases, boosts, the black market. ( We have heard, both from the rapporteur and the Commissioner, that we are dealing with a Schengen Information System which is of a decidedly new generation that is very different from the first and which therefore has a new and different significance for the European citizens and a new and different responsibility towards them. SIS I was set up as a compensatory measure to allow free movement of people, but, in recent years, it has started to be seen more as an instrument, which is also useful in terms of police cooperation. The data from SIS II and SIS I can, in other words, now become a useful resource for purposes other than those initially intended. Furthermore, the enlargement of the European Union means that it is necessary to develop a second generation information system by 2006. Consequently, the Council framework decision on the European arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between Member States also provides for recourse to the SIS and, therefore, for the need for it to be updated in due time. On the basis of all this, it is necessary for the Council to promote a public debate on the nature of SIS and on the political objectives to be achieved with SIS II to ensure that the development of this system takes place in a transparent and democratic way. An assessment will, of course, be made on respect for fundamental rights, and it will therefore be necessary to entrust the strategic management of this and other information systems to an extremely reliable European agency: an agency run by an administrative board composed of representatives of the European institutions and the Member States; an agency that is, moreover, financed by the European Union budget and, therefore, subject to Parliament’s control. A swift decision is therefore needed by the SIS centre on the location, if possible the definitive location. In addition to this, a study needs to be carried out on the possibility of amalgamating the various databases that exist today or will be launched in the coming months and years – the SIS banks, Europol, VIS, Eurojust and so on – on the basis of a single technical platform, in order to create a comprehensive, integrated information system across the European Union. To this end, a great deal of attention needs to be paid to the potential implications of a system of this kind for privacy, human rights and the risks involved in including biometric data. Citizens should, therefore, be well informed so that nasty surprises are avoided. I would like to conclude with a point which could seem somewhat out of place, relating to the immigration emergency. Everyone can see that the illegal entry of immigrants into the Union’s area of free movement calls precisely for SIS II to carry out an unexpected role: a role of managing data and security that was not conceivable when the first generation Schengen Information System was launched. –  Mr President, Commissioner, in spite of everything, I am one of those who are still trying to understand the underlying reasons that have driven the United States to adopt this measure – we know what they are: 11 September, the climate of fear, the preparations for war and the latent threat of attack – but I am certainly also one of those who are prepared to declare openly that they can in no way accept that an ally government, notwithstanding all these reasons, should breach international agreements based above all, as in this case, on the EU Treaty. We all know – we have already been reminded, but I shall repeat it to refresh our memories at the end of the debate – that the most serious and controversial point is that referred to in recital B of the resolution, which states that at first the United States had just asked for these data to be made available. In Italy there is a proverb that says, ‘It is fair enough to ask, but it is a courtesy to answer’; except that the United States did not have the courtesy to wait for our decision but went straight to the second stage of their action. They immediately appropriated the data, even threatening companies that did not provide the information with a fine of EUR 1000 per person. And what information, Commissioner, Mr President! Not just passengers’ full names and details of the flight in question, but even all their credit card details, information on other trips they had made, data, for instance, that could lead back to descriptions of passengers’ ethnic and religious backgrounds, medical data, addresses of all kinds, their occupation, membership of certain groups, and so forth. The Commission has justified this measure by saying that the airlines did not want to have the burden of creating filters and therefore gave immediate access, as they were afraid of the EUR 1000 fine, amongst other things. The Commission has also said that this would have prevented long queues for passengers arriving at the various destinations in the United States. Really, this explanation seems rather childish, to say the least: justifications that are not acceptable in that there is a complete breach – as has also been mentioned already – of Article 8 of Directive 95/46/EC, and the Commission’s role above all is to enforce the directives and hence Community law. Another point of disagreement is this: as has been mentioned, the Commission knew a good 15 months ago that the United States was going to bring this measure into force on 5 March. Well, the Commission’s duty would have been promptly to inform the citizens of Europe and the European Parliament, which would automatically have acted as a sounding board. The United States Congress does not seem to have had much respect for democracy either: it never discussed this measure; it simply interpreted the legislation broadly, it is said, and then moved on to action. I would say that this too is a moment of serious discourtesy. The only point of contact is the well-known high-level agreement of 19 February, which, however, is not a written agreement and has no validity, certainly not enough for us to take to the Court of Justice. We ask the Commission what the legal basis is for this agreement and what European interests are safeguarded in this case. In order to clarify this and other points, the European Parliament has now convened a public hearing and, perhaps, after this hearing we shall first of all know a little more about how it was possible for all this to have come about and, secondly, have a rather clearer idea especially about what it would be best to do now, while avoiding emotional schizophrenia and agreeing on joint, coherent standards to be enforced in future. Madam President, this proposal, which was presented in July 2001, is a proposal for a directive that seeks to codify and develop in the widest possible context European citizenship and above all the Community as regards the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. The Council common position – this should be said – was drawn up and adopted under the Italian Presidency. For bureaucratic reasons, we have only reached the debating stage today. On some points, this Council common position diverges from the Commission’s initial proposal, but it is, however, highly innovative as regards the current . For example, concerning the right of residence, the residence permit is being replaced by a simple registration. A permanent residence permit will be automatically introduced after five years and protection against expulsion will in general also be stepped up, especially in the case of long-term residents. First and foremost, however, this directive has the merit of strengthening and simplifying the very complex legislation that had tried to regulate this delicate area since 1968. The directive will replace nine directives and amend a regulation. This means that, from now on, it will be a type of single text identifying what rights European citizens have, and will have, to move and reside within the territory of the European Union. New value will also be given to the definition of citizen, with the term no longer being defined simply as a worker, student or pensioner, but as a citizen who, as a person, has citizenship. I would remind you that we are talking about Community citizens and their families, even if they are citizens of third countries. This directive does not deal with non-EU citizens who regularly reside in Union territory. The Union has, therefore, finally provided new legislation. We can describe it as an almost historic step, which is, at any rate, certainly important. I would need more time, too much time, to mention the many things that will change even in the daily life of citizens. Here are just the most important. Unmarried partners: from now on in countries where national legislation grants rights to unmarried partners that are equivalent to marriage, such partners should be considered married to all intents and purposes and therefore benefit from the same rights. I remind you that, currently, registered partnerships between same sex and different sex partners are only possible in the Netherlands and in Belgium, countries where civil marriage for homosexual partners exists. In countries where there is no specific legislation for registered partnerships, Article 3 of the directive will apply. This is a difficult article to interpret and apply and so it will be up to the Court of Justice to interpret and clarify it. The rapporteur believes that a genuinely historic step forward has been taken. For the first time in a Community legislative text of a binding nature, the rights of unmarried couples are recognised even if, and I remind you of this, it is being done in line with national legislation. As regards the rights of family, there are some very interesting changes in this area. As regards direct descendents, the only direct descendents deemed family members within the meaning of the directive are those who are under the age of 21 or are dependents. For direct descendents in the ascending line to be deemed as such and, therefore, as family members within the meaning of the directive, they must be dependents. I regret the fact that, on this point, there has been no significant progress in relation to the current legislation. Perhaps Parliament did not want to impose any conditions, at least as regards direct descendents. Other innovations concern the right of entry, movement and residence. Suffice to say that this directive fully simplifies all the current formalities. I said before that a major change introduced concerns the right of residence that is obtained automatically after five years of regular residence. This is the real point, the central point of the directive. There would be many other points, but it is enough to remember that expulsion is being abolished but not in all cases. I will quickly move onto the conclusions: expulsion can occur – this is what the Council decided – only for serious reasons of public order or public safety. Briefly, I consider that it has been better to accept a compromise, imperfect though it certainly is, as regards the Commission proposal and the improvements made by the Committee on Citizen’s Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, rather than to reject the directive which will certainly be a milestone in creating European citizenship. –  Mr President, this report walks a tightrope between the need to increase production of consumer goods and services and environmental protection requirements. I welcome the Commission’s proposal and the rapporteur’s tough, practical, calm handling of the subject. Each product has a life cycle, which starts when it is made available to the consumer. When the consumer uses it, the product’s environmental sustainability – a rather complex term although now universally understood – immediately becomes part of the equation. The relationship is delicate and it does not end with the use or end, so to speak, of the product’s life. Indeed, the most serious problems often arise when the product ceases to perform its function and needs to be disposed of, pensioned off, in other words eliminated from the world in which it has performed its function. It is at this point that the most critical environmental implications come into play, for not all products can be disposed of using the same technology, nor are they all hazardous to the same degree or all biodegradable to the same degree. That is why the Commission is proposing an initiative which deals with the problem at source: if a product is to be easy to dispose of at the end of its lifecycle, this must be taken into consideration right from the design stage, and this is where the greatest merit of the report lies. Here, then, is the proposal to create incentives to encourage initial research on how to keep manufacturers better informed of the technologies and raw materials available to this end. The proposal does not overlook a factor which could give rise to opposition from manufacturers: cost. The text states in quite practical terms that, in addition to encouraging the provision of aid to producers who will face greater costs if they supply these biodegradable goods, a pricing policy also needs to be established allowing manufacturers to set different prices on the market and, moreover, why not, allowing variable taxation to be introduced as well. In other words, those involved in protecting the environment, who are therefore helping us, deserve some support. –  Mr President, it is just as well that this is the second reading, when we should have just been fine-tuning a few positions! It would seem, however, that we are faced with almost a complete overturning of what was agreed at first reading: there has been a major reshuffling of the cards which has enabled the different groups to review the positions they had taken before, to alter them and to propose compromises which are frankly quite perplexing. We must draw a veil over the matter, so to speak, in any case,and remember what it is we are actually discussing. We are discussing a proposal for a directive which seeks to amend the previous European Parliament and Council directive – Directive 97/66 of 15 December 1997, to be exact – which laid down provisions on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the telecommunications sector, and bring it into line with technological innovations which have taken place which were actually quite foreseeable. I would reiterate my reservations, which I have already voiced at first reading, about the usefulness and effectiveness of rules which are so specific, too specific in their regulation of the telecommunications sector and therefore too invasive of citizens’ privacy. I still feel that it is possible to apply the standards which are currently in existence and endorsed at European level to achieve the same end while avoiding the risk of overregulation, of excessive regulation, that is. We need to avoid this alleged respect for privacy leading to the establishment of two systems or a system with two different sets of rules, which would mean, first and foremost, excessive protection of the citizens’ privacy and laying down excessively restrictive rules in the private sector, while leaving the Member States, on the other hand, absolutely free to intervene for their own purposes in the lives of the citizens themselves, for example requiring electronic communication service providers to perform tasks which almost amount to police work. Lastly, I trust that I will not upset anyone if I say that I agree with the rapporteur when he says, in Amendment No 4, that cookies are ultimately acceptable, almost legitimate tools, for they make it easier to understand how to surf the Internet, providing clear, exhaustive information; in other words, they make the surfer more alert. What I mean to say is I do not believe that surfers are victims of cookies. Another issue is spamming, against which we are completely defenceless: those who indulge in this practice do what they want to when they want to and, most importantly, in the quantities and with the quality they want to. At this point, I do not believe it will be easy to produce a directive which everyone can support. We have tried. If it were possible – and I know the Rules of Procedure do not permit it – we should resort to a third reading: it may be only then that we would find that point of convergence and consensus which, at this point, at this moment in time, we are realising that we have failed to reach with two readings. –  Mr President, the figures some Members have quoted amply demonstrate that the mountains are the minority of minorities in this House. We represent only a little over 5% of the inhabitants of Europe, of European citizens, but, as documented in the annals of the European Parliament over fifty years of the European Union, this is only the third time that the word ‘mountain’ and a motion for a resolution about mountains have been heard in this Chamber. The first time was in 1983. The rapporteur then was Mr Colleselli, from Cadore, in the North of Italy. The second time, fifteen years later, I myself had the honour and the duty of bringing the problems of the mountains to this House, with my report on a new strategy for mountain regions, approved on 23 October 1998. My report started from an overall view of the problems of mountain regions, in all their complexity, and concluded that mountain farming was and remains the key. The Ebner report – and I congratulate the rapporteur on the specific detail he has been able to put into it – takes this aspect further and opens up another horizon. I can state that he starts precisely from the conclusions of the previous report by indicating that the salvation of the mountains we are all calling for can start from the farming sector itself. However, we are all aware, once again, that farming cannot do it alone. That is why there are also proposals in Mr Ebner’s report which involve the whole mountain world: transport, infrastructure, tourism, the eco-system. There is another factor we must protect and safeguard; the vital factor for the mountains, Commissioner, is and remains man. The average age of farmers in Europe – as you know –is about 50. Some mountain farmers are over 60. That is a dire statistic for the future of the mountains. We must make mountain farming attractive again, give the farmers confidence, and give them resources. Above all we must have the courage to recognise, Commissioner, that a specific type of farming called mountain farming exists. Let us do so with conviction so that the mountains themselves can continue to exist! –  Mr President, this directive, which was devised in 1989, bears the highly suggestive title ‘Television without frontiers’, but one could not really have imagined that it would also be without time limits. This area, which was subject to innovative legislation thirteen years ago, has clearly changed radically and to an amazing extent. The same even applies to the update we passed in 1997: everything has been left behind by the driving force of new technologies and also fashion. We are thus increasingly sure that the review of this directive, until now expected for 2002, will be brought forward to the beginning of next year, without waiting for too many months to go by. The last five years have, in fact seen a veritable revolution in the television sector; the old TV has now become a supporting actor, a technical tool in the service of digital innovation, the webcasting invasion, the Internet and interactive relationships between user and broadcaster. A global, up-to-date review is also needed because of all the other problems that directly or indirectly surround the world of television, such as the increase in turnover of the networks, the steady and increasingly disturbing invasion by advertising, the explosion of private broadcasters, and the growing social and moral implications of certain programming. The scope of the directive needs to be broadened to embrace not only the subjects mentioned above but also others that are already included but are insufficiently developed, such as the problems of intellectual property, respect for children as often unsupervised users, the cultural levels of programmes – taking into account not only the interests and requirements of those who make them but especially the feelings of those at whom these products are targeted – and lastly the confrontation with American productions, a subject on which there was quite a harsh confrontation in 1997 but which remained to a great extent unresolved. Lastly, on this subject, I also hope we can again discuss the so-called ‘right to information’, a right which, because of equal opportunities, should clearly concern not only the citizens of the European Union but also all those living outside who receive programmes produced inside the EU. It is not enough just to guarantee the great sporting events, as we did in 1997, since man does not live on football alone – if you will forgive the pun. We must distribute constantly updated information, based on culture and constantly updated, not only to those who live within the European Union but especially to those less favoured by geographical location or social and economic status. Everybody’s ‘right to a satellite dish’ is not enough: you need the money to get one. Imagine what can come into houses through a dish in the remotest parts of the world. The most precious aid is that reserved for the production of programmes designed to report, safeguard and make proposals, in the sense of safeguarding regional and local cultures. Finally, let me renew an invitation to the Member States. The rapporteur, whom I congratulate, and whose amendments and positions I support, reminded us that only twelve Member States have so far implemented the directive. Well, Commissioner, let us take this opportunity to give the Member States this message again: believe in this directive, because it will become increasingly urgent, current and important, and if you believe us you must first of all implement it! Mr President, I feared that, after having denied us the right to table amendments, you were also denying us the right to speak. Fortunately that is not the case. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to point out what is written in the voting list concerning paragraph 44. Here there are two words that have been deemed inadmissible: the words ‘serious’ and ‘persistent’. I ask you to highlight this since you have put this paragraph to the vote without this being stressed. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sign language interpreter, I would like to express a few thoughts on the World Year of People with Disabilities. I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Mantovani, who is particularly interested in this subject and cannot be here with us today. This a truly vast subject, as can be seen from the statistics: today there are approximately 30 million people suffering from disabilities in the European Union. This means that one European in ten encounters barriers not just in the field of work but also in access to public transport, buildings, private services, education and training – in other words, in all areas of daily life. However, there are other barriers as well, maybe less obvious but just as insurmountable, which restrict the freedom of European citizens with disabilities, such as the barriers to movement within the Union and to going to live in another Member State. All these barriers too often prevent people with disabilities from playing the active role they would like in society, work, school and daily activities. We need a multifaceted strategy to ensure that these people are guaranteed equal opportunities in full respect for the European citizens’ Charter of Fundamental Rights. However, there is one right which stands out above the others: the right to full citizenship. That is why our group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote with conviction for the proposal for a Council decision on the Year of People with Disabilities – or, as we used to say in Italy in the olden days – people with different abilities – 2003. I therefore thank the rapporteur, Mrs Lynne, for her good work and for accepting the 17 amendments tabled in committee. Three of those were tabled by us, and we feel they are particularly important because they uphold three concepts: firstly, recognition of the importance of the role played by the family at all stages in the lives of people with disabilities; secondly, promotion of a culture of solidarity within society, meaning an understanding that a person’s value is not expressed solely in terms of what he does or is able to do, but primarily in what he represents, namely a human being in all respects; thirdly and lastly, reflection on the concept of the quality of life of a person with disabilities, understood not just to be access to employment or training but also all the other aspects of daily life, in the family and in and as part of society, a quality of life which is genuinely high and equal for people with disabilities too. –  Mr President, it is true that this report on the situation as regards fundamental rights in the European Union is in danger of becoming almost a routine appointment. So as not to repeat what has already been said on other occasions or by other Members, I shall therefore focus my speech on three topics in particular. The first, inevitably, is the family. Speaking not only for myself but also on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I strongly reject paragraphs 102 and 103, which yet again call repeatedly for legal recognition of cohabiting couples, even same-sex ones. We also reject Amendment No 157, which adds to this demand the right even to be able to adopt children normally. It seems that some people will never learn the old lesson that on this issue it is pointless to attempt to go against the European Treaty, which clearly attributes to the Member States the power, the competence and the sovereignty to decide on this sensitive issue themselves. A second topic that I should like to address is that of press freedom and pluralism, which only yesterday was the subject of a heated debate in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. Once again, in language quite unsuitable for this House, paragraph 63 says that in Italy the notion of pluralism is trampled underfoot with the greatest cynicism. Come on, Mrs Boumediene-Thiery, that is a sentence for an electoral manifesto, not for a debate in the European Parliament! We therefore strongly reject Amendments Nos 84, 85 and 86, which reiterate this misunderstanding and in the end put Italy in the firing line all by itself, as if all media problems were concentrated in our country. They start, it is true, with assumptions we can all share, such as the criteria of pluralism, freedom and access to the press for all, but then they reach conclusions so restricted to the individual case of Italy that they end up discrediting all their noble assumptions as well. You just have to read the report by Reporters Without Borders, who certainly did not get together within the Italian Prime Minister’s organisation but are, as you know, an organisation of left-wing journalists. They carried out some research in Italy in April 2003, which they later published, in which they arrive at very different conclusions from those that characterise yesterday’s unbelievable report from the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, with its even more unbelievable amendments. For example, there is a conflict of interests in Italy, it is true, but it is being resolved these days – I might say right now as we speak – in the Italian Parliament, the only forum where this issue can be discussed seriously. A reform bill is on the point of being passed, a reform that the Italian left never had the courage or even the ability to propose during their seven years in government. Reporters Without Borders say that the press in Italy – I am quoting them directly: I am not making this up – is ‘free and pluralistic, although weakened by the hegemony of television’. In contrast to what happened yesterday in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, they do not talk about censorship or media tyranny. On the political orientation of television news broadcasts, both public and private, they write that they are ‘substantially balanced’; the only explicit criticism is the distancing from the screen of public figures like Mr Biagi, Mr Santoro and Mr Luttazzi, whom – I assure you if you do not know them – nobody in Italy misses, except perhaps the political bosses who pay them. A final word, this time, after so many negatives, to recommend the adoption of Amendment No 199, tabled by Mr Borghezio and myself, on the compensation due to Italian military detainees for the forced labour they did in Germany between 1943 and 1945. Only the Italians have not been compensated. We call on Germany to compensate those Italian citizens who worked hard against their will in factories and labour camps, even though it is now really very late. I should like to tell Mr Schroeder to do so quickly, because the youngest of them is 80 years old, and 10% of them die each year that passes. –  Mr President, I am afraid the best has not been saved for last, as the saying goes, for I have to inform Mr Schultz – this being the world cup season – that a thundering own-goal has been scored. In other words, he asked a question on the issue of Mr Dell’Utri’s immunity and then answered it himself. I remember the vote held on the matter in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. The committee adopted the decision to request further information from the Spanish judiciary on the case. Now, then, it is not the European Parliament or the Committee on Legal Affairs which is holding back but the Spanish judiciary, which, in all probability, no longer knowing which way to turn, not knowing how exactly to respond to the European Parliament’s request, is playing for time. There may, however, be another reason: if we consider that the investigation was very thorough, it would appear that the magistrate dealing with the case has realised that he has very little or no evidence with which to proceed. What we have here, then, are delaying tactics, a delaying strategy, in which the Spanish judiciary is continuing to pad outan indefinite investigation with the intention of keeping the matter open and never resolving it. Mr President, Commissioner Vitorino, over the last five years the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice has constituted a large part of the work of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and we can certainly say that there have been major reforms and tangible progress towards granting increasingly extensive rights to citizens. Now, as several of my fellow Members have said, the borders of this new European Union have expanded eastwards and down towards the Mediterranean Sea. Well, we must transfer the experience we have gained and the actions we have taken to these new borders in order, above all, to guarantee citizens’ safety: Schengen will be an acceptable development only when we have firm guarantees, firmer than those we currently have. Border control is a joint problem, and we must again stress that it is not a private concern for individual outer States. The instruments to put these synergies into practice are called Europol and Eurojust, which we must support with conviction and, in brief, with adequate resources. Only in this way can we fight, all together, the dangers threatening the area of freedom, security and justice: illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, prostitution, drugs and organised crime multinationals; at the top of the list, though, is one obligation: the fight against terrorism. Lastly, there is a challenge, possibly just as important, waiting for those who will be here during the next parliamentary term: attainment of true European citizenship, swift asylum procedures and truly free and equal freedom of movement for all. Allow me, in concluding this speech and my time in Parliament, to thank Commissioner Vitorino, flattery aside. When I arrived here in 1994, I was told that to be a good MEP I would have to criticise and perhaps argue with the Commission every day. I did not manage this: either I am not a good MEP, Mr Vitorino, or you are a good Commissioner. I think the correct answer is the latter. – Mr President, a debate analysing three reports on consumer issues together is a rare, precious occasion after years of lukewarm interest from Parliament and the Commission in this area. The first report is, as we have heard, on the Green Paper on European Union Consumer Protection, the second on the consumer policy strategy for 2002 to 2006, and the third, a very weighty tome, on the legal protection of the consumer. The strategy proposed by the Commission lays down these three medium-term objectives, which are to be achieved through a programme implemented immediately and to be subject to periodic checks carried out by the Commission and recorded in documents certifying progress made. Achieving a common level of consumer protection means harmonising not just the safety of goods and services but, first and foremost, the different legal procedures through which the consumers exercise their role as guarantors in commercial transactions on the internal market. If consumer policy is to be genuinely implemented, consumers must be accorded the same importance as an identical guarantee covering the whole of the Union’s territory. The programme also provides for a plan of priority actions through which consumers can decide with the Member States on monitoring and, where necessary, appeal procedures, thanks to a system of genuine administrative cooperation. Consumers and their various networks must have the capacity and the necessary resources to promote their actions on an unrestricted level playing-field within the internal market, and to do so in all areas, in respect of companies and the various production organisations. The principle of minimum harmonisation of consumer protection policy is enshrined in the Treaty, moreover. It is now important that there is a more effective, comprehensive policy to win support for minimum harmonisation across the board. To this end, we need new rules which are endorsed and, above all, which supersede the previous rules. Mr President, on behalf of Mr Mantovani too, I would like to thank the rapporteur Mrs Jöns for her superb work and for the excellent cooperation she has demonstrated on this sensitive issue, which is more of a priority than ever before. As shadow rapporteur for our group, Mr Mantovani – who as long ago as January 2003 was the author of the report that opened the debate in the European Parliament on the future of health systems and care for the elderly – has confirmed the key importance of the fundamental challenges concerning, in particular, provision, quality, content and cover in the field of health care expenditure in Europe. As the Commissioner has also confirmed, the ageing of the population, progress in medicine, greater life expectancy and the increasing demand for health services, linked with unprecedented mobility and information, together contribute to a substantial widespread increase in the costs of the health system, which at times has proven to be unsustainable for the current economic climate and above all for public administrations. According to figures contained in the European Commission’s latest report on the health situation, the number of elderly people over the age of 75 will rise to 27% by 2010. In the next 15 years, the number of the very elderly, that is, over the age of 80, will increase by almost 50%. At the same time, in this context the level of dependence of the elderly is also set to increase. Changes in the over 80-year olds age group will be greater and quicker than those in any other age group. This trend will also generally hold true for the ten new countries that will soon join the current Member States. Indeed, with the exception of Poland, the Slovak Republic and Cyprus – where the active population continues to grow, even if somewhat slowly – the ageing of the population in all of the other countries is a phenomenon that has already taken root and is tending to increase. A lot will depend on the effectiveness of the strategies implemented in the health area and on the political choices made at European, national and local level. Changes in this area are not only necessary but also more of a priority than ever before. Even though the provision of health care and care in general currently remains essentially the competence of the Member States, we realise that a similar trend with significant and complex implications cannot be dealt with effectively and thoroughly at national level alone. In January 2003, when the Mantovani report on health systems in Europe was adopted, there was broad consensus in this Parliament in favour of developing Community cooperation to improve health systems, which, in my opinion, is the only way to deal with the ageing of the population in particular. This trend means that European society must adapt and citizens must change their behaviour and habits. In the decisions of the Court of Justice, these various issues – which concern different policies that compete both on an international and a national level for total subsidiarity, and I am thinking of patient mobility, the completion of the internal market and consumer policy – must be considered to be increasingly crucial and there must be a new context within which European cooperation is stepped up in order to be able to achieve tangible results as soon as possible. There is a requirement for more extensive cooperation and for common standards to be drawn up in terms of quality and quantity. The European Union’s objective, set at Lisbon four years ago, was to become the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. Today, attaining this objective has become particularly difficult as a result of low growth and the unfavourable economic climate and will therefore not be attained unless we approach it seriously and in the same way as the other challenges that await us. –  Mr President, I would like to draw your attention and the attention of the House as a whole to another case of severe violation of the most basic human rights, of violation, above all, of the freedom to choose where to live. This is the situation, what is happening at this time, even as we speak, in Tunisia. The facts are these: an Italian woman, married to a Tunisian citizen, was taken to Tunisia with her two children, aged 16 months and 5 years, for a week’s holiday – or that is what she was told by the father. When they got to Tunisia, the father took away his family’s passports and is now forbidding them to leave Tunisia. He expects his wife, an Italian citizen, to stay in Tunisia against her will. A few minutes ago, I was informed that the Tunis Minors’ Court has granted custody of the children to the mother, recognising that the father is not able to look after the children, but that it does not as yet intend to allow the family to go back to Italy, where they have a house, where the children were born and which is their natural home. Mr President, we who have bilateral relations with these countries in all fields also have the duty to make them understand that they must bring their legislation – whose authority we respect – into line with the changing conditions in the world so that dialogue can take place between parties on equal terms, with equal dignity and in mutual respect. If they wish to enjoy good relations with the European Union, they have to understand that we have certain rules which we intend to uphold, starting with laws guaranteeing human rights and the free movement of persons. – Mr President, we have been arguing over this subject for ten years, and I would not miss a round, even if I had to buy a ticket to enter the House, not least in order to be able to bear witness that we are still at the same point. The positions are identical to those of ten years ago. It was inevitable, therefore, that we should turn to conciliation as a solution; in the meantime, however, we again find ourselves having to say ‘no’ to a Council proposal, which is identical to the previous one, above all because, in this proposal, not the slightest account has been taken of what has happened in Parliament, that is of the broad consensus which, at first reading, rejected any possibility of extending the ecopoints system beyond the normal expiry date fixed for 31 December this year. On that occasion, the European Parliament once again condemned the infringement of the basic principle of the free movement of goods, while specifying not unreasonable procedures for guaranteeing transit and providing adequate protection for the environment. We are familiar with all the technical proposals. However, while we are here trying to reach a difficult agreement on ecopoints, what is the Governor of North Tyrol planning? He is inventing a rule on the basis of which he will ban the transit of lorries of over seven and a half tonnes for a vast range of goods, practically all those in the construction sector, with effect from 1 August on the section between the municipalities of Kundl and Ampass: almost a joke in the debate we are having. Fortunately, the Commission, this time, at least – congratulations, Commissioner! – took timely action: it immediately instituted an infringement procedure on 24 June, and we are now waiting to see whether there will be a judgment by the Court of Justice or whether the Tyrol will reconsider and withdraw this measure, which is directly in conflict with Article 38 of the Treaty on the free movement of goods. However, it is important to act quickly because it is necessary to avoid another type of damage in addition to environmental damage: economic loss, which is detrimental to the interests of all haulage contractors, many of which have actually gone bankrupt in the meantime. I live in the region immediately on the other side of the Brenner Pass, and we always wonder how on earth the Austrians can presume to command this enormous respect. Why is it, seeing as we suffer just as much damage, that it has never occurred to any of us to invent ecopoints or strange things of that nature? –  Madam President, as an Italian, I would like to thank Mrs McKenna for urging the Italian police to follow the example of the Scottish police. I would also like to express my sorrow at her unfortunate experience and my appreciation of her commitment to social concerns. I would like to thank her on behalf of the Italian police, which, however, I feel is no worse than any other police force in Europe. In all probability, the Scottish police were polite and courteous because, if one police force should imitate another, it may be that protesters should imitate other protesters too. What I mean is the Scottish police were polite and courteous because the protesters who were with Mrs McKenna did not follow the example of the protesters in Genoa. Mr President, a dispute has arisen in Italy, to be specific in my region, the Trentino-Alto Adige/South Tyrol, regarding the ethno-linguistic census organised under the region’s statute of special autonomy and assiduously carried out by the German-speaking administration. This census runs counter to the principle of free movement as well as to Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of personal data and in particular to Article 8 protecting the ethnic origin of citizens. Whilst possible infringement proceedings are underway against the Italian State, it seems that Commissioner Bolkestein directly agreed to a solution with the Governor of the Province of Bolzano, as the President himself announced after returning from a trip to Brussels. Considering that the Italian Government, which is responsible for this kind of negotiation, has already made an official protest, I would be pleased to know from Commissioner Bolkestein what the tenor of this meeting was: if it is true that a solution was agreed to or if the issue was simply discussed. –  Mr President, I am going to use the time allocated to Mr Andria and Mr Mantovani too, who have asked me to express their regret because they have been detained in Italy by strikes and other such serious matters. I shall briefly summarise their views too, insofar as I am able. The task of the European ruling class, and the European Parliament in particular, is to rewrite the model of the social market economy, to modernise it, to revise it without reducing the social undertaking. Job security must no longer be sought on the basis of acquired rights but through skills, hard work and lifelong learning. Wage differentiation, which has consistently been advocated in theory but has often been disregarded in practice, must become a genuine goal for Parliament, which must specify clearly and resolutely the process to be followed to achieve it. This commitment to reform must be upheld first and foremost by the active parties, in other words by all the social elements who will have to make responsible commitments to promoting training, innovation and flexibility, without, however, subsequently going back on them when the time comes to implement them. The dialogue on the bargaining structurewill have to reinforce both the company level and wage differentiation; where the company level is reinforced, productivity is enhanced and individual contributions are appraised. Clearly, in order to achieve these goals, it is necessary to match bargaining at national level with bargaining at company level. In order to provide secure jobs, we need, however, above all, as has already been said, to boost investment, the real spearhead, especially in future initiatives targeting the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Joint ventures are another way of boosting SMEs, which, we must not forget, provide over 90% of jobs in Europe. When applying flexibility, care must be taken to ensure that it does not become an easy option for certain companies which would like to exploit this solution by creating atypical jobs such as collaboration contracts, which do not represent a secure future, especially for young people. If we abuse this instrument, we will be in danger of creating future generations of precarious, insecure workers, but also, above all, of creating low-income future pensioners, in other words poor future pensioners. We must therefore avoid giving way to populism in these major reforms and endeavour to take resolute, practical, achievable steps forward. –  Mr President, as the EPP shadow rapporteur I should like to ask if your secretarial office is in possession of an  regarding point 5.5, which the translation office has circulated but which, oddly enough, does not yet appear in the text distributed so far: it is a note made some time ago regarding a very serious translation error which falsifies the rapporteur’s original text. In point 5, fourth line, the rapporteur wrote: ‘The use of guns must be absolutely avoided.’ I repeat, the rapporteur’s text says: ‘The use of guns must be absolutely avoided’, and the translation is: ‘The use of guns must be absolutely forbidden.’ There is a substantial difference there, apart from the fact that Parliament can, I believe, neither consent to nor forbid the use of guns by any police force in this Community. In any case, the translation is evidently wrong. I should like to check whether you are in possession of this  before voting – irrespective, therefore, of the result of the vote. –  Mr President, this long-awaited report is most timely for the preparation of strategies in view of the European Council of Thessaloniki on the development of a common policy on illegal immigration, smuggling and trafficking of human beings, external borders and the return of illegal residents. The Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has adopted a position on illegal immigration policy by adopting this own-initiative report by Mr Pirker, whom I congratulate on the results he has achieved. We all agree to support the creation of a European corps of border guards funded at Community level, the creation of which will require a new legal basis. With the proposal of this solution, the proposal to set up an independent agency to control our borders automatically lapses. Furthermore, it is a shared opinion that the Community’s borders should remain open to people fleeing forms of repression who then apply for asylum in the Member States of the Union. We also all agree in acknowledging that it is an exclusive right of the Member States, deriving from the principle of subsidiarity, to establish the nature and scale of legal immigration, but a common social integration policy is now essential in an area of security, common policy, social relations and economic justice. Lastly, it is worth noting that the debate in the Committee on Citizen’s Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs came to the conclusion that bilateral readmission agreements between Member States and countries of origin and transit should, if possible, be replaced with truly Community-wide agreements, perhaps recognised by all the Member States without exception – in other words, without any opting-out. Finally, in this common area of European commitment on immigration, I am pleased to recall – as the rapporteur also did when closing his speech – an initiative that complements this effort to combat illegal immigration. This is the regulation that came into force on 1 January this year – just a few days ago – that will spend EUR 250 million over five years financing the efforts of third countries to combat illegal immigration at source. The aim of this initiative is first to inform, and then to instruct and help to give people who intend to emigrate a thorough understanding of the value of legal emigration and all the risks involved in illegal immigration. –  Madam President, I am sorry to have to begin by saying that this proposal is highly disappointing for several reasons, as is the debate that we have had so far, with rare exceptions. Some speakers have shown that they are not quite aware of the limits between humanitarianism and permissiveness or between necessary controls and unnecessary torture, but, above all, many have shown they do not understand that laws are not made of rubber – they are not as elastic as some would like, that is – but they have certain fixed points, certain cornerstones, beyond which one cannot go. The reason why I think this document should be rejected is that it is not balanced. It all too clearly favours the position of the asylum seeker, exaggerating the values I have just summarised, and places the Member States and competent bodies in a really difficult position to make a serious assessment of asylum seekers’ applications. Another reason is that this seems to be a purely theoretical text, clearly divorced from the reality on which it is necessarily and inevitably based: the everyday reality of countries – particularly (but not only) my own, Italy – that have to grapple with the problem of uncontrolled immigration on a daily basis. Another reason for rejecting this type of formulation also derives from the lack of uniformity in the assessments made by Member States in their procedures for granting refugee status. One can thus find cases of secondary migration; that is, refugees enter via the most permissive State and then transfer or move on internally to another, more restrictive State. The proposal is not even clear on the distinction between the three different groups of asylum seekers either: those suffering political persecution as defined in the Geneva Convention, which has already been mentioned; refugees from war zones; and economic and occupational immigrants. It is unacceptable that three categories of asylum seekers that are so different from each other should be dealt with under the same rules. The Commission, furthermore, seems even to want to streamline the asylum acceptance procedure, extending it also to people whose cases do not come within the spirit of the Geneva Convention or the openings of the Tampere Council or even the updates on this issue to Title IV of the Treaty of Amsterdam. What makes the Commission’s proposal and also the Parliamentary Committee’s draft legislation inadequate is that they do not correspond to reality. An ordinary piece of legislation is proposed for a severe emergency situation. Come and see what has been happening every day for the last ten years along the Italian coastline; come and see the conditions under which we are working to receive the people, not to put them in prison, and you will realise how inadequate these proposed guidelines are. As I said at the beginning, here we must not confuse humanitarianism with strictness: the two things can go together. If you think that 300–400 refugees arrive in Italy every day, 1000 yesterday alone, you will realise that certain precautions are necessary or even inevitable. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for long laments of pity such as I heard just now. There are no cases of inhuman treatment, nobody is held in temporary prisons; the refugees are received and fed, and then they are identified and classified to sort out the illegal immigrants among them, who are rejected, from the genuine ones, who are helped to stay, and also to try to identify underworld infiltrators. There it is, then: strictness, yes; permissiveness, no. That is why our group will support all of Mr Schmitt’s amendments that aim to restore the original text of the report, that which lays down fairer rules, especially for the Member States that find themselves in this difficult situation. In short, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: once they have got through the door into Italy, thanks to Schengen you will find all kinds, genuine ones and unwelcome ones, in your own countries. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the very practical, realistic and topical nature of this report. Indeed, as well as violent terrorism, it talks about a less explosive, very widespread terrorism operating under cover of political groupings whose objective is clearly to fight against democratic systems. Recitals E, F and G make this clear, stressing that terrorism is on the increase in almost all the European countries and that the nature of terrorism is changing radically, but that there are also, according to recital G, in particular, international networks enjoying strong – as the recital says – logistical and financial support. Well then, that is precisely what happened in Genoa during the G8 period. International terrorist organisations used the Black Blocks to exploit genuinely peaceful organisations, working under cover of groups purporting to be non-violent and their complicitous leaders, who were supported in turn by the parties of the Italian and European left, which even lent them the platform of the European Parliament yesterday to hurl frenzied abuse at the Italian government and against the values of democracy and respect for people’s ideals, values which Parliament supports and develops. This too, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is terrorism: it may be less potent but it is still effective. Recital M and recommendation No 3 state this explicitly, and Amendment No 2, tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, is also negative evidence of this for, if it were to be adopted, this amendment would have Parliament believe that where the democratic and Constitutional structure of a country is working properly there is no terrorism. Well then, following this reasoning, we could cheerfully label Spain, Ireland and maybe even Italy as undemocratic countries with dysfunctional Constitutions, whereas their governments are the victims of terrorism, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and cannot be held accountable for it. This too is a form of terrorism. Mr President, I join my fellow Members in their criticisms of the Commission’s proposal for tobacco, but I will also try to explain why I am rejecting it with regard to the reasons set out in its favour. One female Member even referred to savings for the Community agriculture budget but it will have quite the opposite effect, since European manufacturers will have to buy tobacco from third countries leading to increased costs, lower employment and larger deficits of the Community trade budget. The conversion idea, already rejected by many, including here, and which I do not support either, might be a possible solution for other crops, but certainly is not for tobacco. There are no suitable, economical alternatives because tobacco is grown on small holdings. The possible crops are Mediterranean ones, which are already ring-fenced by Community production quotas and bans. In support of tobacco, though, is its highly cost-effective production. An hour’s work on tobacco costs the Community budget EUR 5.7. To give a comparison with other crops, durum wheat costs EUR 21.4 and corn costs EUR 12.8. The fight against cancer really is an untenable reason. Indeed, the possible elimination of European tobacco in order to contribute to the fight against cancer is totally irrelevant. Moreover, already today, as has been pointed out, 80% of the tobacco consumed in Europe is imported. On the other hand, the Commission has been more sensible with regard to olive oil. The proposal it has tabled in this regard is undoubtedly acceptable, especially if it is perfected by maintaining the commitment to give the Member States broad leeway to decide the extent of decoupling, which in any case is already acceptable as the 60/40 ratio determined by the committee. And the States must be given other opportunities to intervene in terms of quality too. –  Madam President, Commissioner, unlike our esteemed rapporteur – the basic approach of whose text I do, however, appreciate – I am convinced that our work is neither superfluous nor useless. It is an appeal, a valuable reminder precisely for all the Member States, which are called to harmonise their legislation or, in any case, cooperate in the field of justice, in this very sensitive area – the confiscation of crime-related proceeds, instrumentalities and property – too. It is without a doubt an important instrument because, as we know from daily experience, it is that instrument which will strike at the financial sources supporting organised crime, particularly crime organised on an international scale. At the centre of this fight is the fight against what is known as money laundering between the international organisations, which now know no bounds either in Europe or worldwide. I want to tell you something which the unforgettable Italian judge, Giovanni Falcone, said, which is relevant to this aspect of the matter. As you will remember, he was subsequently assassinated by the Mafia. At a hearing, ten years ago now, he said: the Mafia have not waited for the completion of the internal market to internationalise their activity. That is why it is important to provide an international response to this internationalisation of crime from those in charge of the legal systems in the Member States. It must be said that, in this, we have been preceded by both the United Nations and the Council of Europe, which have produced conventions which are a valuable point of reference for the subject we are debating too. It must also be said, however, that the proper legislative basis is the action plan endorsed by the Amsterdam European Council of June 1997 and drawn on by the Vienna European Council of December 1998. These action plans specify the procedures for implementing international confiscation measures, which are, clearly, intended to supplement the various national measures. The Council stresses the importance of each Member State– and I quote from the Council text – ‘having well-developed and wide ranging legislation in the field of confiscation of the proceeds from crime’ and of ‘introducing special procedures for tracing, seizure and confiscation of proceeds from crime’. As regards the debate on Mr Di Lello’s report in committee, we tabled a number of amendments which were all adopted by the committee. Our rapporteur is of the opinion that these amendments impair the original text but we, of course, feel that they enhance it. I will mention just one in particular – the amendment seeking to invert the onus of proof and transfer it from the defendant to the prosecution. Mr President, I would like to thank all those who are going to support the conclusion at first reading of the debate on a regulation that we hope will be able to enter into force on 1 January 2004, as planned. I would like to thank the draftsperson, Mrs Sauquillo, the Commission, the Council and all those who will accept my compromise amendments and thus allow the report to be adopted today, just in time to ensure that the regulation enters into force on 1 January next year. This is an extremely innovative report which, for the first time, gives Community resources to third countries so that they can help us to combat illegal immigration in their territory. I apologise, Mr President, to you and my fellow Members, but as shadow rapporteur it is my duty to keep an eye on the little standard procedure that remains in this vote. If I am not mistaken, you made us vote on paragraphs 1 to 14, but paragraph 12 has been declared inadmissible, in so far as it contains the two petitions that no Committee on Petitions has ever presented to our committee. Paragraph 12, therefore, must absolutely not be included in the text. I would also like to wish the services of the sitting the best of luck in the task they will have in putting right some paragraphs: paragraphs 59 and 69, for example. If you remove Mr Berlusconi’s name then they will be without a subject, sentences which do not make sense: there is a verb, a few adjectives but there is no subject. It would have been more responsible to delete the entire paragraph. I do not want to be cruel to you, Mr President, by asking you to read to me, out of curiosity, how paragraph 59 could end up if amended. It is not possible because there is a subject missing: who does what is written here? Who feels the consequences of what is indicated here? This is a difficult situation, Mr President; it really is a real mess. –  Mr President, on a lighter note, it is traditional for Parliament’s spring part-sessions to be pleasantly besieged by schoolchildren, by groups of pupils and students from all over Europe. It is the season for organised school trips. However, not everybody is equally able to take advantage of this great opportunity which we could be offering to all our European young people: indeed, the pupils and students from the furthest, outermost regions cannot come for reasons of money, because of the costs involved. Up until a few years ago, Parliament gave tangible assistance and funding to schools and schoolchildren throughout Europe, but then, in order to save money, this funding was stopped. I have looked into the matter briefly and discovered that some funding is given to the Regions – to the regional authorities – but that it is up to the Regions how they administer it. It does not seem right, Mr President, that schoolchildren who come from far away should not have the same opportunity as those who live nearer to come and see how we work and what we do, as they would have had in the past. I feel that, out of all the money we might spend on groups of visitors, the money spent on young people is, without a doubt, the most important and such as to warrant a small financial sacrifice too. After eight years of heated debate, a solution to the ecopoints issue is, at last, on the horizon. Indeed, the conciliation conclusions must be welcomed as restoring the balance in a situation whereby an instrument is being applied in Austria that holds back HGVs, which can travel freely everywhere else, including in the Alpine regions of France and Italy, without being subject to environmental tolls. I repeat: including in the Alpine regions, and here, I am addressing the Austrian Member who talked as if the Alps were an exclusively Austrian concern. Yet our problems are the same as those of which Austria complains and the environmental damage is the same. We are all in favour of protecting our mountains and countries from an excessive amount of HGV traffic, but it is not by moving the cause of pollution elsewhere that the problem can be solved. Nor is it any consolation that the environmental damage is paid for by extremely high tolls, the effect of which is to bring transport companies, especially the smallest and weakest, to their knees. Indeed, the amount of damage does not change, irrespective of the tolls. I agree with Mr Lisi: this solution is the best possible compromise and it ought to satisfy Austria too. It may be, however, that Austria had become too used to the situation, or, perhaps, not used to it enough, depending on which way you look at it. What, then, should we do at this juncture? We need to start work resolutely on the trans-European networks, first and foremost the Brenner base tunnel and the high-speed four-track update of the Munich-Verona rail corridor, in order to provide a genuine rail alternative to road transport. However, we need to make things very clear to the companies managing intermodality. It is true that intermodality is currently being implemented in a fairly satisfactory way, but its prices, timetables and services need to be genuinely competitive and attractive – or rather, convincing – so as to draw all the traffic from the roads onto the railways. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot begin a debate on this subject without remembering the ten latest victims claimed by the St Gotthard tunnel, and Mr Fischler was quite right to pay tribute to them, but we must also remember that, this very morning, yet another incident took place in the Petit St Bernard tunnel. It seems almost to be an unfortunate coincidence, placing a greater onus on us, now that we are preparing to debate the proposal and the timeliness of whether or not to reopen the Mont Blanc tunnel. As I shall say later, I have no doubts on the matter, but there are many considerations I must air before I make this statement. First of all, the St Gotthard accident is directly connected with the one in the Mont Blanc tunnel, where, as everyone will remember, 39 people lost their lives on 24 March 1999, but there is an even more direct link than just the similarity between the two accidents, which it is only right to recall. It is a link of cause and effect: it seems clear to everybody that the mass of traffic that the Mont Blanc has not been able to cater for during the two and a half years or so since it closed has inevitably shifted to other Alpine passes, starting with the St Gotthard itself, which in turn is now closed, and then the Brenner and the Tarvisio and the whole Alpine arc, which, in short, has absorbed the surplus traffic that used to go through the Mont Blanc tunnel before it was closed. It is clear, therefore, that the cause of the accident can be quite easily identified and predicted, given the situation. Alongside the negative effect of the accidents, however, there is, of course, another negative effect, which is the impact on the environment. Heavy vehicles, especially those crossing an Alpine pass, certainly have an environmental cost that nobody would want to pay. Quite rightly, therefore, people have started discussing the subject of the Mont Blanc tunnel, particularly in the last couple of days, and proposals have been made to try to prevent the tunnel from reopening and thus protect the land around it. I must say that I totally disagree with this proposal, although I understand the legitimate aspirations of those living in a particular area to protect their environment. This proposal, however, not only contravenes the Treaty – in that it would violate a fundamental principle, that of the free movement of goods, persons and so on – but I would say it is also an ethical violation. By closing the Mont Blanc tunnel or keeping it closed, one is in fact just shifting an ecological problem from one part of the Alps to another; we would just be shifting the problem from the Mont Blanc region to the Fréjus region, to Switzerland, and to the Brenner and Tarvisio routes, as I said before, which does not seem right to me. I ask those who advocate this solution: what kind of proposal is this? What has become of the spirit of Alpine solidarity? What has become of the feeling of belonging to the Community, to the European Union? On the other hand, as the Commissioner has also reminded us, the opening of the Mont Blanc tunnel will certainly be accompanied by special safety arrangements. It goes without saying that, in addition to the environmental damage, there is also the economic damage that we have a duty to consider here: during the two and a half years that it has been closed, it has been calculated that Italy alone has lost EUR 1 500 million, and the Val d’Aosta region will have seen its own regional gross domestic product fall by 10 %. France, too, has probably had losses comparable to these: perhaps Mrs Grossetête will tell us, as I know she is to speak afterwards and she lives in that part of the world. We must not be ashamed to talk about the economic aspect as well, since the Mont Blanc tunnel, like all passes through the Alps, responds to demands which are not solely economic but may be expressed in economic terms, and which need to be met to enable the various nations, citizens and groups operating in the fields of industry, trade and tourism to carry on their activities. All this serves not only the countries on either side of the border but also and especially more distant countries – I am thinking of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany – whose traffic inevitably has to cross the Alps, which are today almost closed off and practically impassable. It is also clear that the Italian and the French authorities have, at last, found a common language in which to propose solutionsand have invested almost EUR 300 million, the burden being shared equally by the two countries, to ensure safety. It is said that once this tunnel has been restored – which I hope will be very soon – it will be the safest in the world, with features that I will not repeat now because they have already been mentioned by the Commissioner himself. Now we need to take one further step: to speed up the bureaucratic and technical process to complete the Munich-Verona link, which means the Brenner tunnel, and the Lyon-Turin link, which means the Fréjus tunnel. These are priority projects. I shall end, Mr President, by reminding the House that there is a new proposal that might help: the Aosta-Martigny rail link, which starts in Milan, is not one of the European priorities but could be included if France and Italy take the matter up. By the way, I shall close with some news: tomorrow the Italian Minister, Mr Lunardi, and his French counterpart, Mr Gayssot, will be meeting to agree on a date to reopen the Mont Blanc tunnel, which I hope will be very, very soon. –  Mr President, Commissioner, this report has come back to Parliament for second reading. It has already been the subject of frank and, at times, lively debate between those who call for the citizens to be fully entitled to be involved in certain structural policies at the decision-making stage and those who feel that the political, technical and administrative institutions set up to perform the task of decision-making should have a greater degree of competence and autonomy. In its response to first reading, the Council scaled down the rapporteur’s proposals somewhat, appearing to consider them to be too advanced and too open to a form of democratic participation that could slow down the process of drawing up texts or which, as the rapporteur herself said just now, could open the door to exaggeratedauthoritarianor distorted interpretations. In short, the Council intends to confer on the citizens’ organisations a consultative role – an important role but not a decision-making role – giving the legislators elected to take decisions on the basis of the input of civil society sole responsibility for doing so but without rendering it impossible for exceptions to be made. The rapporteur proposes various forms of legal review where the positions of the citizens and the decisions of the relevant authority do not tally, particularly where the subject involves major issues such as security, the environment and public health. As regards the need to ensure that the Member States have the possibility of exemption from the directive in the event of an emergency, there is a specific amendment providing this loophole with due regard for subsidiarity and for specific environmental conditions or crises. As far as public participation is concerned, the rapporteur has resurrected a number of amendments already rejected by the Council, clearly hoping that the role of the citizens and their lawfully established organisations in the drawing up of environmental decisions will be reconsidered. Many amendments were accepted by the Council, and some of them propose again particularly important, not to say essential principles. Here are some of them. Most importantly, there is the principle that the public must be furnished with the necessary information through electronic media providing access to the institutions’ documents. Secondly, the public must receive, , information about the right to participate in decision-making in the forms and quantities permitted – we touched on this just now. Thirdly, the public must be entitled to express both minor and far-reaching comments and adopt positions without prejudice to any options. A further obligation is placed upon the competent authorities, and that is to make reasonable efforts – as the document states – to reply to the public individually or collectively, and an obligation is placed upon the Member States too, to adopt practical, tangible measures on the review procedures and to make available to the public all the necessary information on how to obtain access to both administrative and judicial review procedures. This is to make it possible for the citizens to defend any grounds they may have for dissent throughout the judgment process and uphold an opinion which is different from that of the competent authority. This line of reasoning may, of course, be interpreted in different ways in different countries, depending on the level of democracy permitting public participation and, above all, protecting the organisations through which the public exercises this right of participation. Two things appear to be particularly important: firstly, the provision of access to cooperation and to the drawing up of legislative documents, and secondly, the provision of access to legal review throughout the judgment process in the event of differences. In this way, we are following faithfully the basic philosophy of Voltaire, who said, 'I may disagree with what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it'. Even if Europe is not improving our knowledge of law, it is, at least, teaching us some philosophy. –  Madam President, our hearts leap upas we talk about mountains today, although, as always, the numbers in the Chamber are on the low side. The very fact that this debate is being held is an achievement and I would say that, this year, in honour of the International Year of Mountains, the European Parliament too has endeavoured to make its contribution. The Commission and I remember that memorable seminar of 17-18 October, we discussed this matter in the context of the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy and Agenda 2000 too, and we are discussing it today. It is a shame that, as always, this is an intimate conversation between a few friends, but that has always been the fate of the mountains in the history of the Community. Madam President, if you were to do a little research on the Internet and search in our databases for the word ‘mountain’, you would find three references to past resolutions. The first was tabled by a certain Mr Colleselli in 1983, the second tabled by myself in 1998 and the third tabled in 2001 by Mr Ebner, who spoke just now. If you add these names to the few Members present today in this Chamber, you have the mountain people, the champions of the mountains, if I may be so bold as to use that phrase. However, mountains, as we know, cover 30% of the Community’s territory. In countries such as my own, Italy, and in Greece, Portugal and Spain too, over 50% of the land is defined as mountainous. Why, then, has there been so little attention paid to mountains throughout history? Because the inhabitants of the mountain regions are few. Between 5 and 7% of the European citizens live in mountain regions, on average. There are few inhabitants who are therefore unable to form a strong lobby in terms of either numbers or wealth. That is a shame, for this may well be a historic time for the mountains in terms of their future and prospects. First and foremost, they have to convert their diversity from the weakness it has been hitherto into added value in order to start to exploit the genuine potential they offer. Europe is not a depressed region: it is a complex, complete economic and social system. I would say that, strangely, Europe does not need economic assistance so much as credibility and specific legislation which will allow it to launch its initiatives for the future. That, Madam President, is why, if you search for a directive in the database, you will find that the most recent directive dates back to 1975. Twenty-seven, almost thirty years have passed: the mountains have changed dramatically in that time but we are still working with a very outdated directive. What, then, can we suggest? Some of the Members have already made proposals and I too would like to make some demands. We must cling to the proposals of Article 158, which the Commissioner mentioned just now. This article calls upon the European Union to reduce and avoid development divides between the regions of Europe. Then the same article recognises the specific situation of the Community’s islands. We are not demanding another article or a different legal basis: we are asking for the specific situation of the mountains, at least, to be recognised alongside the specific situation of the islands. It is clear for all to see that the mountains are different from the rest of the territory: they are different environmentally, biologically and in terms of natural history and social conditions. In this regard, I would mention a suggestion made by Mr Mantovani – who is unable to be here because he was unable to get a flight at an appropriate time – who laments the fact that, in addition to the environmental and economic problems, life is difficult in the mountain regions when it comes to healthcare too. When a hospital closes in a mountain region a serious problem is created. When, in particular, healthcare networks are insufficient, genuine difficulties ensue. That is why the mountains need overall, general measures. All we have to do is give them a hand: they are not asking for aid, they are just asking for a little attention and, as I said just now, for the specific nature of their situation to be recognised. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that, although we are talking about the specific case of Austria, our perspective must be much wider, covering the entire network of Alpine passes, if we want to be objective and make decisions which suit everybody to some degree. Indeed, what happens to one pass immediately affects all the others. As far as the Brenner tunnel is concerned, recent progress has been spasmodic, to say the least. I would point out that, apart from its natural appeal as a direct vertical line connecting Northern Europe to the Mediterranean, just recently, traffic going to the Brenner tunnel – in Austria, therefore, but in Italy too – has increased immeasurably for very long periods because of the closure of first the Mont Blanc tunnel and then the St Gotthard tunnel and because of the acute crises at the Fréjus pass and the Swiss passes. All this has helped to make the question of the environmental protection of Austria desperate, but we must not forget – and this has never been given any consideration – that there is another side of the Alps, the Italian side, and it will not surprise you to learn that that is where I live. We have never received any recognition of what is exactly the same problem as that of Austria, whereas Austria has been allowed to use the ecopoints system and other systems mentioned by a number of speakers. We have never been allowed to use an ecopoints system or tolls like those for the ‘Ponte Europa’ or the Austrian stretch of motorway, which are among the highest in Europe. I have therefore reached the conclusion that the solution proposed by the Caveri report is fair. It is right to apply the ecopoints system to EURO 1 and EURO 2 lorries and it is right to exempt EURO 3 lorries and all subsequent generations of vehicles, but it is also right to abandon ecopoints after 2006 and find alternative ways of offsetting external costs, and not just where Austria is concerned but with regard to all the critical and sensitive areas of Europe. Lastly, it is right to focus on implementing major rail and intermodal transport projects, starting with the Brenner Base Tunnel, for now it really is time to get to work not just on projects but on implementing them too. –  Madam President, in the previous legislature, this issue was dealt with mainly by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, whereas the committee responsible is now the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. This is right and proper, for in this tragedy – a tragedy which is equally great for all – there are in effect two victims, also equally affected: the consumer and the farmer. I remember the long hours of debate, the on-site inspections carried out at the beginning of the committee of inquiry’s work and then during the work of the supervisory committee monitoring the committee of inquiry, set up because Parliament did not have confidence even in the information provided by the Commission; in effect, it proved to be severely lacking in many areas. Now we know more than we did then, for the world of science has also provided some answers and clarified the main issues somewhat. We now know that the bulk of the blame for this tragic affair lies with the State, with the world of politics. Basically, there are some Member States which have been less diligent in enforcing precautionary rules and, above all, bans, over the past two years. Other States seem, once again, to have adopted, as in the past, the approach of a conspiracy of silence, in what could be described as an irresponsible attempt to hide and minimise the impact of the tragedy or – at least – the problem. Already, in the past, precisely this attitude of lack of transparency has caused the most severe damage for farmers, for they were the butt of suspicion, mistrust and discouragement on the part of the consumer. I therefore feel that the most important part of the Olsson report is precisely its loud call to governments to enforce the rules properly and thereby restore the confidence of the citizens, whether they are consumers or farmers, with an adequate information campaign and, most importantly, with sufficient support not least for those who are the direct victims of the tragedy: the farmers. – Mr President, as has been said, this debate is directly related to the debate we held before the entry into force of the European Parliament and Council Directive establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy. The report before us captures the spirit of the directive and applies it directly to the issue of the cost to be paid, by all users, although maybe not in equal amounts, for using water for economic purposes. However, the report also, rightly, and here I congratulate the rapporteur, stipulates that access to water at a proportionate or reduced cost, according to need, is a human right. Therefore, any pricing policy must be based, above all, on a realistic examination of the social and other conditions in which the commodity of water is to be used, but also on a user education campaign that raises awareness and particularly focuses on water saving measures. In order to provide a service which best responds to the different situations, it would be appropriate to incorporate the principle of subsidiarityso that each State makes its own decisions and each region sets its own levels and parameters. The general line taken by this report could be described as preventing wastage and assisting the less economically developed areas, and our thoughts therefore turn immediately to the matter of the agricultural world, which, as some of the Members have pointed out, must certainly not be too casually confused with the general issue. The basic principle is, in fact, that all the users should, in any case, contribute to paying for the commodity of water but in different proportions. However, priority scales also need to be established on the basis of first social and then economic requirements. The most direct comparison is with the CAP, which is intended to encourage and propose development measures which, as well as being suitable for the area concerned, are also compatible with the level of water resources available. Where there is no water available at all, Mr President, I feel that this needs to be taken into account, especially in the pricing policy. – Madam President, it is a matter of great surprise and regret to me that the Chairman of a major political group such as the Group of the Party of European Socialists should get caught up in the false, subversive controversy which originated in the Italian political debate and which it is absurd to think could be continued in this House. The issue has already been thoroughly addressed in Italy and it is certainly not evidence of a problem at European level but merely of a misunderstanding or, worse, the subversive interpretation of a phrase which could have been interpreted differently. Moreover, the Italian Prime Minister, Mr Berlusconi, has provided ample explanation of what he meant by the statement, which he intended to be extremely positive. The difference between the two civilisations is clear, and his intention was merely to highlight and emphasise that there is a great difference as regards genuine freedom, which exists in the West but not in the East, as regards equal opportunities for men and women, which are established in the West but denied in the East, and as regards all those differences in civilisation which – it cannot be denied – are there. That was what Mr Berlusconi meant by his statement, but, of course, everyone has read and interpreted it in their own way. Madam President, I would go so far as to say that it would be dangerous for this House to focus on a statement such as this now: at such a sensitive time as this, we need clarity, transparency and positive thinking – not a vitriolic debate – and, most importantly, we have to have the ability, which I do not see in the opposition, to extend a hand and interpret what people say in the positive sense intended rather than always placing a negative interpretation on things. It is therefore our intention to oppose any initiative seeking to open an interim procedure in this House, as has been suggested. Mr President, it is Christmas time, which means it is the time for goodwill throughout Europe. From the platform of this House, I would like to call on the government of the Federal Republic of Germany to give a present to the Italian ex-military internees, the ex-prisoners condemned to forced labour who have not yet received any compensation for this non-voluntary work. I would like to point out that the German Foundation ‘Memory, Responsibility and Future – a direct expression of the German Government and German industry – has decided to exclude Italian ex-military internees alone from this compensation, in conflict with both European Parliament resolution B2-0147/1985 and, most importantly, with all the equal opportunities legislation being developed by Parliament. These prisoners, these internees, are no different from the others. Even the Austrian Government decided to make good this debt in 2000. The deadline for submitting applications is 31 December. Mr President, I would like to ask you a question: in view of the fact that there is a resolution on this matter drafted by Mr Borghezio but that the timeframes will be very long, why does the German Government not act immediately? Seventy thousand of these internees are still alive. The harsh statistics tell us that the numbers fall by 10% each year. We cannot accept this resolution. –  Mr President, Commissioner, every time we discuss tobacco in this Chamber all hell is let loose. There are divisions within groups, relations between committees are soured and Members who are usually friends treat each other with mistrust. Tobacco is a divisive subject for debate because of the many different sides there are to the argument. There is the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which, it would seem, is not particularly concerned with public health and gives more importance to the internal market rules. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy would appear not to be aware of the fact that there is no legal basis for proposing a public health policy. It is all a pretence. In actual fact, both committees are quite aware of all the facts, but this has now degenerated into role playing. In any case, whatever line we take, we cannot disregard the fact that Directive 98/43 was annulled by the Court of Justice because it lacked an appropriate legal basis. Therefore, we now have the chance to remedy the situation, if only in part. Indeed, as the Commissioner himself admitted with great frankness a few minutes ago, the Commission’s latest proposal is decidedly inadequate to provide the kind of protection of public health demanded by the Committee on the Environment. In any case, as it stands, it seems to be limiting its demands, to be prepared to settle for very littlein order to avoid another rejection by the Court of Justice because of the innovations it proposes, although they are very well balanced. As others have said and I want to reiterate, it would still be an appreciable result if we were to go home with the Commission’s proposal. As on past occasions, a little is better than nothing. As shadow rapporteur, I too have recommended that my group vote for the Commission’s proposal without amendments. We will see what happens tomorrow. The important thing is that we do not start proposing once again to cut Community aid to tobacco growers on the pretext of protecting their health or, now, to ban advertising. It is the smokers – and I stress, the smokers – not the growers who must be the targets of these measures to persuade people to give up smoking. Indeed, the strange thing is that even if the entire Community production were to be terminated, the number of smokers would not have fallen at all; on the contrary, the smokers would just switch brands and start buying products from third countries. This change would not bring any improvement at all in conditions of public health, just an increase in the revenue of extra-Community companies, and, worst of all, it would have a considerable negative impact on employment levels in European tobacco-growing areas, in other words in the south of Europe, where more unemployment is the last thing they need. To sum up, it is right to oppose advertising in the interests of public health but, for goodness’ sake, let us not start proposing once again to cut aid to Community growers. –  Mr President, Minister, it is quite true that the failure of the UN and the failure of the plan to tackle hunger is due to a lack of sensitivity even on the part of many governments. Certainly not, however, on the part of the Italian Government – and I regret that a Member from the left did not miss the chance to make some shabby political speculation even about such a serious and sensitive matter. I must remind him that Mr Berlusconi, the Italian Prime Minister, managed to tread new ground at Genoa during the G8 by getting approval for an initial sum of EUR 750 million out of a new package worth 3 000 billion lire, or EUR 1 500 million. This is a concrete commitment and so these accusations are decidedly off-target. It is true that there are always new famines appearing round the world, and not only where there is the excuse of war to trigger them off. This scenario was debated thoroughly at the FAO meeting, particularly on the last morning, Thursday 13 June, when it was decided to give special attention to the problem of the world’s mountainous regions, where hunger and poverty are always more acute and show themselves in the most dreadful ways. At the meeting – which I had the opportunity to attend as rapporteur, since I tabled a resolution on mountainous regions in this Parliament in 1998 – it was also pointed out that one does not need to look in war zones or far-off regions to find signs of a worrying increase in abandonment, decay and even the possible scourge of famine in mountainous areas, even in civilised Europe. Now, in the UN International Year of Mountains, this message is being passed from the FAO Assembly directly to this Parliament. We need to grant mountainous regions prominence and attention and restore their specific identity, but most of all we must not be ashamed to consider them already a potentially poor area. In short, this scourge of poverty can also be prevented, as well as combated. –  Mr President, as many speakers have already said, the intentions behind this report are extremely commendable, particularly the aim of making it possible for the citizens to have a say in the process of establishing environmental rules. This point was discussed during the March plenary and it was already clear then that attitudes towards the methodologies and towards the influence of this participation too vary from North to South, so to speak. Indeed, the northern countries have a different attitude towards this type of involvement, towards the idea of this type of participation from the countries of central and southern Europe. The rapporteur, clearly inspired by the way things work in her country, which is possibly democratically more developed, more advanced than others – proposes participation that is too peremptory, too authoritarian, participation that could ultimately slow down, if not block or paralyse certain decision-making processes, upon which there will never be total convergence between the direct democratic base and what is known as the authority, that is the administration appointed to deal with these issues. There you are: this authority must also take into clear consideration all the demands and comments of those who have to build, sell and create tourist, sporting and cultural concerns – in short, daily activities – in the environment. Considering that this second debate contains points and issues which involve legality and access to levels of justice, including in the event of appeals, the roles and responsibilities must be quite clearly, fairly and unambiguously defined in terms of who the actors should be and how much influence they should have. The Aarhus Convention has been cited: that is all very well – we support it – but it must not be taken as Gospel. It too must allow for a healthy subsidiarity, for customs, for habits, and for the level of directly democratic involvement possible in the various countries. In any case, I congratulate the rapporteur, who has put in an enormous amount of work, but I feel that there should be some adaptation, as I said at the beginning, to the different attitudes. –  Mr President, if you will allow me a touch of irony – which may at this moment be a ruse to escape from such a sensitive debate – I should like to say that the election campaign by the Italian Left for the European elections is officially opening this evening here in the European Parliament. The document that we are discussing has, in fact, been hijacked by a hidden agenda – depriving the cultural, scientific and technical research that the title announces of any value – even though the fact that the title itself picks out Italy as a country in which freedom of information is allegedly under greater threat than elsewhere, gives an early indication of biased conclusions that are simply meant to hurt the Italian Government and particularly its Prime Minister. In support of this report, the rapporteur presents the conclusions of a study carried out by a Düsseldorf institute – which was never authorised by this Parliament – with findings that are anything but clear and definitive. The study starts by announcing its aim of comparing the information situation in the 25 Member States; it then provides a few data on only eight countries, explicitly pointing out the provisional nature and shortcomings of this survey. A question springs to mind, Mr President, which I put to this Chamber: why the hurry? Why not wait until the study was complete with the full complement of 25 countries? I could give an answer, but perhaps I am too cynical. The original text has been padded out with a raft of amendments that present the situation in Italy in a paradoxical light, to say the least, with personal references and criticisms of the Italian Prime Minister that are not in keeping with the style and language of the European Parliament. The President, Pat Cox, wrote as much in a letter today, in which he called on the rapporteur to correct the tone and cut out the personal references. The rapporteur has indeed proposed a few cosmetic touches – as she describes them – as a gesture of willingness. Frankly, Mrs Boogerd-Quaak, they are not enough. What is needed here is a complete face-lift to restore some dignity to the resolution. The situation in Italy is very different from the way it is described. This is confirmed by a report last year by Reporters Without Borders, an organisation that is certainly not close to the Italian Government or its Prime Minister; on the contrary, it is highly critical. Nevertheless, it states that the Italian press on the whole reflects the variety of political positions that are expressed in Parliament and presents an exhaustive spread of opinions that is often critical of the government. The report then analyses the various affinities of the news programmes on television and radio, the daily press and periodicals, etc., and comments: ‘While the print media offer a range of political views that fairly reflect the reality of the Italian political arena, they suffer economically from the broadcast media’s dominance.’ Finally – the last point – it says that the print media as a whole are unfavourable to the government and the ruling majority. Where, then, Mr President, is the truth? It is a shame, because one just cannot see where the truth lies. This report could have helped to uphold it. We know where it is. Unfortunately, the report betrays it and mortifies it. – Mr President, we cannot talk about immigrants and immigration without distinguishing between the different types of immigrants. There are at least three different types of immigrants: political refugees, refugees from war zones and economic migrants. Once this distinction has been made, it immediately becomes clear that a single asylum law cannot cover all three categories, as Mr Evans proposes. Not only does this document fail to correspond to reality, it even goes so far as to demonise the Member States which demand the right to decide whether to recognise the right to asylum on a case-by-case basis, depending on the way the society of the country in question is structured and the adequacy of the reception facilities available, without incurring negative repercussions for anyone. Instinctively, all of us have always been supportive of those who find themselves in the dreadful situation of being forced to leave their own country and apply for asylum in another, but the level of danger to which the rapporteur would have it conceded that all applicants are exposed in their countries of origin is not always acceptable. He is compelling governments and Member States – to put it in colloquial terms – not to make a fuss and to open their gates without delay, invoking the Geneva Convention as if it were a magic password, a skeleton key, rather than what it actually is, a series of guarantees that place those seeking and those granting asylum on an equal footing. Mr Evans’ proposal to establish a common minimum standard – as he calls it – actually invalidates this principle by making it too permissive. The same may be said of the proposal to introduce a single procedure – as it is called – which, in practice, takes away from the host State any possibility of verifying the suitability of the applicant, who cannot be denied any right, mind you, and whose only obligation is to produce his credentials, as happens among respectable people. The problem is that refugees and exiles often provide easy cover for decidedly undesirable guests such as drug dealers, traffickers in human beings and terrorists who pretend to be immigrants and then train as pilots and destroy skyscrapers and all the people working inside. The caution and controls that the rapporteur is denying the States are the fundamental elements of basic, legitimate protection of the States and their citizens. The Pirker report, which I do support, on a common immigration policy, is much more responsible, not least because it is more balanced, does not make concessions to cheap populism and respects safety measures. Lastly, to those Members of the left who have attempted once again to bring up the usual controversy against Mr Berlusconi today, I would point out that they are at least a day late. They should read the ; although they have missed the debate, they are still on time for the train of cheap populismand pointless political speculation. –  Mr President, first of all, allow me to say that, once again, I consider this Parliamentary procedure whereby the Commissioner speaks after three speakers and the Minister after seven, as if to say that all those who will speak from now onwards are not even worthy of an answer, to be strange. Having said that – I do not agree with it but I abide by it – I shall speak particularly about the Watson report, which proposes a useful, appropriate initiative to regulate the security side of future summits of any kind. The proposal started off, it must be said, in decidedly lifeless tones as regards an objective analysis; then the tone improved along the way. This is just the opposite of what happened with a parallel initiative for the fight against terrorism, which arose out of the emotional response to 11 September and then all of a sudden became an opportunity not only to produce a European arrest warrant but more especially to cause a real witch-hunt within Italian politics. But the leader of my Group, Mr Tajani, will speak at greater length on this. I return now to the Watson report, which proposes the requirement of agreeing public order measures for major summit meetings. A truly appropriate idea, I was saying: it is a pity that it should have become both an excuse for preparing a summary trial of the events at previous Summits, and especially a Trojan horse in its attempts at party political speculation in a decidedly national vein. This has all come about through instrumental amendments, in the form of direct attacks on the Italian Government and its President. Not just this, but it also reiterates a defamatory action, as has already been mentioned, against the Italian forces of law and order, which are accused of serious offences and Gestapo-like behaviour that have never been proved in the numerous inquiries that have so far been opened. This, then, amongst other things, violates the Italian State’s legitimate autonomy and sovereignty to deal with public order issues. To those Members who still confuse the limits between national sovereignty and Community competences I say quite plainly – but still calmly – that it is time to stop doing the dirty washing of national politics in the European Parliament, but it is also time to put an end to the widespread sport of misusing points of order and questions in order to provoke improper debates and vitriolic attacks on persons rather than on ideas and political positions. I say this particularly to the Italian left-wing Members, the diligent supporters who regularly find room to express themselves in this House and also in the newspapers, thanks to the work of partisan reporters with little objectivity. Fortunately most of Parliament has understood this. In the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, almost all the amendments from the left were rejected. I propose that Parliament should do the same in its plenary session, and to make it quite clear I shall indicate the dangerous points: Amendment Nos 22, 25 and 29 are real chemical weapons against the truth. They should be rejected, otherwise I shall be forced to ask my coordinator to vote against this report. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of key dates have been mentioned repeatedly in this affair. The first is, without a doubt, 5 March 2003, when the United States asked airlines operating between the United States and Europe to make available all the data relating to passengers: absolutely all the data, not just, as had been the case thus far, the data necessary for air transport agreements. The second date is 15 March 2003. Just a week later, with timing worthy of an even greater cause, Parliament adopted the resolution calling for enforcement of the 1995 directive and the 1989 regulation on the protection of privacy. The third date is 23 September, today: six months after the adoption of the resolution, it would appear that nothing has changed; the United States has not responded to the Commission’s demands. We might ask whether the Americans are deaf or whether it is the Commission that is unable to find the rights words to get through to them. Thus, still today, travellers to the United States find themselves asked, in addition to the usual general questions, about their religion, their taste in food, where they last went on holiday and their close and distant relatives. That is certainly going too far. It is right that the Commission should raise its voice, that Parliament should call for more resolute endeavours such as an international agreement, perhaps, as proposed by the resolution. It would, however, seem appropriate to mention another date too: 11 September 2001. As we all remember, it was then that strict controls started to be enforced. Mindful of that appalling incident, I feel that perhaps we ought to be just a little more patient and realise that, behind what is certainly an annoying breach of confidentiality, there is still a great deal of fear. In any case, as the Commissioner said, a little flexibility might facilitate dialogue. –  Mr President, I would like to congratulate our chairman, Mr Hernández Mollar, on the contortions he has had to perform in order to bring this text to plenary. It has not been an easy task. If we are to understand the importance and, above all, the scope of the agreement, we must remember what prompted this initiative. It was not the emotion immediately after September 11 so much as the urgent need, following those tragic events, to create a network to monitor and combat the terrorist organisations operating throughout the world. To quote the resolution adopted by Parliament in December 2001, any agreement on judicial and police cooperation signed by the European Union must respect the Convention on Human Rights. The primary concern – as has already been said – is not to permit the extradition of prisoners who would be liable to face the death penalty in the United States. Now, without prejudice to this principle, I cannot see what other concerns there might be. We feel it would be excessive in any case to presume to make the implementation of this agreement conditional upon an undertaking to do something about the situation at the Guantánamo base. We can demand clarity and transparency from the United States with regard to what is happening at that base, but we must not hinder the progress of an agreement whose effect is much wider than that, which is, in other words, in the interests of world security, not just US security. That is why we voted against the amendment on Guantánamo in committee, seeing it as a separate issue which can, if necessary, be addressed on its own. As for accusing the United States of being a country which fails to respect human rights, all I can say is I would not want to be the council for the prosecution. We must remember that the United States was the first genuine democracy to be created in the world in the history of civilisation. My opinion is that some views are to be considered to be decidedly partisan. The agreement is a major step forward in combating not just terrorism but financial crime, the drug trafficking multinationals, money laundering, cyber crime and the trafficking of human beings too. These may appear to be unrelated issues, but they are, in actual fact, linked by the urgent need for resolute, timely, unconditional action. –  Mr President, I would like to say – in relation to your intention to deal with the agenda in a moment – that it really does seem inadequate to dedicate only one of the items on the agenda for the debate on topical and urgent subjects to the situation in Madagascar. What is happening in Madagascar is something much more serious which warrants much more than fleeting attention. As you are aware, Mr President, President Ratsiraka’s position was confirmed following the political elections, but all attempts to reestablish democratic relations with his opponent, Marc Ravalomanana, are being thwarted. What is more, civil strife has led in recent days to the ports and transport coming to a total standstill and food supplies being completely cut off. Many children and elderly people are already dying of starvation. I know that the resolution we are to debate on Thursday afternoon – that will inevitably be an intimate conversation between a few friends, as is always the case – will focus mainly on politics and the economy. Mr President, this is a question of respect for human rights. The alarm has been raised by a community of sisters – Italian and French nuns – who have been the object of a disturbing increase in unwanted government attention, not least, in recent days. In other words, there is a danger that a climate of oppression and suppression of human rights will develop: this is a question of more than just economic issues. I would therefore urge you to give this issue a more appropriate slot on the agenda. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal for reform, however comprehensive, will never be able to satisfy the many different farming systems in Europe. It was therefore inevitable that the debate would become heated and even change in tone according to the different viewpoints of the Members. To get straight to the point which interests me, I would like to say that I come from the mountains, and in this debate I want to express the opinion of those who live and work in mountain regions. We endorse the transition from market, in other words from production, to farm, and we also endorse the proposal to transfer the savings made through modulation to rural development. Despite the many instances of reluctance to address mountain concerns, despite the fact that the mountains are not mentioned anywhere in this reform, we can say that there is hope on the horizon. At last, for the first time, multifunctionality, which is indispensable for some disadvantaged peripheral areas, is treated quite seriously. Multifunctionality has always been practised in mountain areas where, together with their primary activity, farmers are required to control forestry development, channel watercourses, concern themselves with animal welfare and look after the environment for the benefit of farm and other tourism. This also means taking the greatest possible care to ensure the quality of typical products and niche products, which have for some time been highly successful and not unprofitable on the market. This too could help to convince a young farmer or two not to abandon the mountains. It is not enough, however: multifunctional farming brings added value to the community and it is therefore right that there should be appropriate remuneration. The ridiculous premiums for meadow mowing are not enough: a decent, fixed, supplementary income should be provided for those who work in the mountains and perform these services for the benefit of all. Otherwise, the exodus already taking place will continue and depopulation of the mountains will be the inevitable result. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission’s study, which supports this proposal, is both terrifying and encouraging. It is terrifying because it presents a tragic view of the health situation in countries where the three major scourges of this century which we are discussing are concentrated: AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis claim more than five million victims every year. AIDS is the most recent scourge with, however, 90% of cases found mainly in developing countries and 70% in Sub-Saharan Africa: there are more than 40 million infected people. Malaria reappeared in the 1970s and claims one million victims each year. Tuberculosis, which has been eradicated from western countries, kills two million people each year, perhaps also, as with malaria, owing to the so-called developed countries irresponsibly lowering their guard. It is encouraging because of the figures on the new effort being made by all the Member States, which have appropriated EUR 600 million for research in addition to the 100 million stipulated by the Fifth Framework Programme. It is now important that this programme reaches the recipients directly, overcoming the usual problem of the extremely high cost of medicines, especially for countries which do not have the necessary budgets and which need considerable assistance. I would therefore reiterate a proposal which has already been put forward in order to cut these costs: the abolition of all royalties for medicines, making, if possible, not just the European Union pharmaceutical companies assume their responsibilities but those all over the world. In conclusion, it is important for our political activity not to be yet again an end in itself, restricted just to debate in this Chamber: for once, when the Member States and other countries, in conjunction, intend to take real action, let us give an example of pragmatism and responsibility. Certainly, the Charter of Fundamental Rights matters more than market rules. Mr President, frankly I must say that, emotionally speaking, my speech will be different from one that I would have made before 11 March 2004, that is to say before the tragic events that took place in Spain. Let us be honest: we had partially accepted, or at least we had become accustomed to the 11 September tragedy and therefore the issue concerning the data requested by the United States also fell within a normal dispute over legitimacy. I believe that we need to start with the assumption that, no matter what, citizens must be clearly informed in advance of the fact that they are going to face such requirements and, consequently, such control. Citizens also need to be just as clearly informed of the use and the destination of the information, particularly information that goes beyond mere personal details and can, for example, reveal membership of a religion, of a political movement or indicate tastes or habits of an extremely sensitive nature. On this subject, I would like to mention Directive 95/46/EC, which I quoted a short while ago pertaining to a request for clarification directed at Commissioner Bolkestein on the linguistic census in South Tyrol. I hope, Commissioner, to have an answer sooner or later, before the day is out. There is a principle that is also valid in this case, that is to say where Article 6(1)(c) states that the personal data that are collected must be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are collected and/or further processed. Precisely: I believe that the phrase ‘not excessive in relation to the purposes’ gives the debate a much wider scope. The purposes are known: this is about combating terrorism; and – quite truthfully – doubts are being alleviated, at least as far as I am concerned, and I am also managing to overcome my doubts about the number of agencies that have access to the data, about the fact that an immediate access system is used, about the absence of appeal procedures and many other aspects. If I consider the fact that this is all for a purpose such as the one that we are aware of – combating terrorism – then I consider it a necessary sacrifice for a higher purpose. .–  Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Commissioner Vitorino for this introduction, which paves the way for the presentation of my report. Indeed, the directive we are discussing represents a genuine leap forward in the debate on citizenship of the Union and the free movement of persons. For the first time, the citizen is recognised as having rights not just as an economic entity but as a person, as the holder of individual rights which, together with general rights, make up European citizenship. The rights of free movement and residence derive directly from the European Treaty, they have long been established, as the Commissioner said, and they confer on the citizens new, major fundamental rights. Indeed, one might say that this directive lays the foundations of dual citizenship – national and European citizenship – as formulated in the draft Treaty discussed in the Convention too. The introduction of the right to permanent residence is a concrete example of this. Before looking at the directive in more detail, we should specify its scope. It is directed at Community citizens and members of their families, of whatever nationality. The principle of equal treatment of third citizens who are members of a Community family has been established since the sixties and the directive makes it even more efficient and effective.  This is a right derived from the right of the Community citizen of whose family they are members. It must be made clear from the outset that this directive does not apply to the citizens of third countries or, in any case, not to those who are not related to Community citizens, even if they are living in a Member State or enjoy free movement within the Union. The great merit of this directive is that it combines all the previous provisions on the subject in a single text. Another merit is its clarity and, in this regard, I feel that some of the rapporteur’s amendments, not least, have helped to simplify the excessively bureaucratic sections as far as is possible. The most innovative elements include the proposal to replace the residence card, as the Commissioner mentioned, with a simple certificate of registration with the competent authorities. The registration procedures must be straightforward and direct and, in any case, the principle of self-certification must be applied, as it already is in some Member States. The principle of self-certification must also apply to the provision of proof of income and health insurance cover too. In the case of family members who are third-country nationals, an identity document must be supplied in order to prove the existence of a family relationship, purely in order to prevent abuses, which are always possible. A further innovative principle introduced by the directive concerns the expulsion of third country citizens who are entitled to residence on Community territory. The directive stipulates that they cannot be expelled under any circumstances whatsoever. This approach applies the ‘Amsterdam objective’, namely the creation of a border-free area of freedom, security and justice, but some of the Member States will probably want to establish their own rules on this matter. I have saved the most controversial issue until last, as always happens when debates are introduced in this Chamber: the family, its composition and the definitions of couple and spouse. To avoid such a vast wealth of innovative legislation being hijacked by the usual tug of war, as rapporteur, I have striven to be as open as possible, stretching my principles and the principles of the political group I represent to the limits in the interests of completing the process with the directive intact. Moreover, there is no ambiguity over the definition of spouse in terms of Community law, as the Court of Justice has confirmed on a number of occasions. In this connection and in relation to unmarried couples too, the rapporteur has appropriated a number of amendments tabled and then withdrawn by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which appeal to the laws of the different Member States with a view to putting an end to the discrepancies which still exist at Community level. In my opinion, this democratic appeal to subsidiarity, to national sovereignty, respects all interests and should avoid the usual crusades which could well diminish the content of the report and render its scope ineffective. In short, each Member State can regulate family issues on the basis of its own legislation and concerns. It would be a real shame if we were unable to succeed in delivering a worthy text enjoying broad support to the Council, considering the marvellous opportunity of codecision we have on this matter. Moreover, it is inconceivable that we should impose on 13 States a model supported by only two of them, or that priority should be given to symbols and dogmas rather than responsible rules awaited by millions of citizens who want to be able to organise their lives. To sum up, it has to be said that the rapporteur’s approach is, for the most part, in line with that of the Commission, which has produced a coherent, objective text which, as we already know, also expresses the Council’s position. We have the opportunity to give the citizens new, modern rules which provide greater guarantees of civil liberties. I am confident that they will be adopted at the vote in this Chamber and I would like to thank the committee draftsmen and all the Members who have contributed to the report with their amendments, which have, without a doubt, improved the content of the directive. –  Madam President, I should like to put a point of order before Parliament today, at a time when we are about to vote on the most important act we are called upon to approve, that is, the budget. Nine people died yesterday in the St Gotthard tunnel because of a road accident. This places a greater onus on us when – under the heading of ‘infrastructure’ – we come to vote on the much-needed and now ever more pressing engineering works which must be Europe’s response to the problem of traffic across the Alpine passes. Today we shall be debating the reopening of the Mont Blanc tunnel, with all the economic and environmental problems that involves. Let us also remind ourselves of this: the incident in the St Gotthard tunnel was caused to a great extent by the additional volumes traffic that the St Gotthard, Brenner and other Alpine passes have had to absorb as a result of the closure of the Mont Blanc tunnel. We must therefore vote with conviction for the infrastructure funding to speed up the procedure involved in rebuilding the Brenner rail tunnel and the Fréjus rail tunnel, and move road vehicles onto trains, with benefits for the safety of those who travel and also for the surrounding environment. Let us remember that when we vote. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Members that have tabled this oral question in the House, although I do find it too mild and vague given the seriousness and the complexity of the issue that is raised. The very replies given by Commissioner Kinnock – which were actually too cautious, almost embarrassed – confirm that the instability which we are condemning is real and that the problems are genuine. Furthermore, we have already tabled a written question, on 9 October 2003: I was the first to put my name to it, but 48 MEPs signed it from all the political groups. This question referred, in a much more detailed, specific way, to the concerns of those working – some for many years – at Info Centres, Info-Points and Carrefours, all the European information points. Now, given that we have still not received a written reply – at least not one that I have seen – I will take the liberty of quickly going over the points in this question. It began by stressing how the European Parliament, exactly as it is doing today, has often drawn attention to the importance, as regards information and communication policy, of these networks created in more or less all the Member States. The Commission, too, stressed a similar opinion, and did so in two official documents: Communication 354 of 2001 and Communication 350 of 2002, which concluded with more or less the same words, saying that Info-Points, Info Centres and Carrefours are invaluable heritage because of their experience, flexibility and immediate vicinity to the representatives of civil society and the citizens. Even Mr Prodi specifically praised these institutions in a reply given to another question on 27 September 2002. Not least, he said that awareness of the measures proposed and the projects implemented by the European Union is increasing thanks to the information networks. This is why we are even more bewildered and saddened to read the letter of 29 September 2003, in which the DG Press, contrary to all these good promises, notified the national structures housing these networks that extending the agreement for 2004 would no longer include the right to a subsidy, whilst, as far as the future is concerned, the Commission will look into – as the text states – new forms of cooperation. As Commissioner Kinnock mentioned, this is all because of the entry into force, on 1 January 2003, of Financial Regulations No 1605 and No 2342. This is a new and unprecedented situation which places a question mark over the very survival of these networks and, in any case, drastically reduces the capacity for dialogue with the citizens at precisely a time when, on the contrary, such dialogue should be increased. There is a great need, Commissioner, an infinite thirst for knowledge – as other Members have said, even from the opposite bench – at this time, as we are approaching the European elections, when the European Constitution is taking shape and when enlargement will soon be taking place, which will certainly mean that this need for information will be even more widespread. I would like, however, to stress the need for an immediate reply to the queries contained in the written question. What does the Commission intend to do to act in good time, for example to give legal personality to Carrefours and to Info-Points by applying Articles 54, 55 and 185 of Council Regulation No 1605 of 2002? Above all, though, an immediate reply must be given for 2004: it is not enough to say ‘we will guarantee it for a year but for any longer we are not sure’. In saying this I am thinking, above all, of the most disadvantaged areas, of these rural Carrefours, especially in mountain regions, that are often the only, irreplaceable sources of information and a sign that the European institution is close to the people, especially in these disadvantaged areas. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in actual fact, we are discussing two subjects which are quite distinct although closely connected. Indeed, a joint debate on immigration is taking place on two fronts: the first concerns the recognition of the status of long-term legally resident third-country nationals; the second concerns the regulation of the stay in a Member State and the freedom to travel for fixed periods and for specific reasons. Certainly, the first proposal would appear to be more important in that it seeks to establish the conditions under which citizens of third countries who are long-term residents in a Member State, within the meaning of the directive, can also travel to a different Member State of the Union from that in which they have been granted residence. The debate on the directive within the Council is encountering obvious difficulties because the matter is so broad and sensitive. Many States are still striving to define a clear position on the various provisions of the directive, taking into account the different situations and dispositionstoo. Moreover, the extent to which States are affected varies as well: for example, in certain geographical areas, such as Italy, the problem of immigration is clearly more acute, and it is more severe and more urgent than in others. It must be pointed out once again that there are other factors related to the main issue, including, for example, family reunion projectsand other asylum projects, not to mention the complex issue of refugees. In general, we would advocate the approach of those governments which are attempting to establish a direct link – a dialogue, we might say – between the directive and national legislation. This is what we are doing in Italy: striving, as I said, to move ahead with this proposal. However, once we have laid down certain minimum criteria, it is still necessary to leave each Member State to decide how best to implement its own legislation. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to distress Mr Cappato, but I too am going to take a line which is not pleasing to him. This report states a basic position. It is not a response to the current situation, as some would have us believe. In actual fact, for many years, the UN has been maintaining a position against drug producers and pushers, clearly indicating the degree to which the different substances are dangerous and vehemently upholding the need to combat illegal trafficking and the spread of crime at all levels. After the 1961 UN Convention, there were further declarations: in 1971, 1988 and 1998. Now, in view of the Ministerial Conference due to take place next week in Vienna, the European Parliament is being called upon to present a proposal, to express its position. That is no easy task, given what we have just heard. Although it takes these broad premises as a starting point and appears to be well balanced, the report then comes more or less directly to the usual conclusions which regularly divide Parliament and public opinion too – that soft drugs, particularly cannabis, should be liberalised and legalised and that a distinction should be made between soft and hard drugs. Some of the Members asked just now how the report could be interpreted in that way, but the points are there if one reads the report carefully. Moreover, the method of treatment using alternative substances is clearly recommended as the most effective system, the most direct way of combating drug addiction. Here too, nothing could be further from the truth. As we are aware, this method is disputed in many Member States because it does not bring about the recovery of drug addicts but just stops them being a threat to society. In other words, the important thing is to remove the problem – this kind of method is not really intended to bring about the recovery of the individuals concerned. The report also appears to be deficient in that it does not combine the proposals for measures in the current situation with pre-emptive initiatives to limit the phenomenon in the future. In any case, the attempt to liberalise cannabis as a non-dangerous substance is unacceptable in that there is no scientific evidence to this effect. Although it may be true – and here I am opening a window for those who hold a different view – that not all those who start by smoking cannabis go on to take hard drugs, it is now an established fact that all those who are now slaves to heroine started by smoking pot or grass. These different opinions have already emerged, during the course of the debate in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and it is no coincidence that this report was adopted by 24 votes to 20. The documentation is clear for the most part, then, confirming how difficult it is in this matter to proclaim absolute truths or to provide conclusive, unquestionable solutions. –  Mr President, we are talking about an eagerly awaited and sensitive report which, if approved with certain basic amendments tabled by the PPE, may genuinely contribute to resolving a very serious problem. It will, in any case, help us to take a step forwards in our efforts to discourage any discriminatory attitudes towards people because of their race, religion or different nationality. The purpose is to set up joint actions to be implemented by the Member States committed to facing the problem, in as coordinated a manner as possible. This is, first and foremost, to prevent offences committed in different countries of the Union from being tried and punished with measures that differ too widely, that are too incoherent. The first part of the report aims to define as precisely as possible what a racist or xenophobic offence consists of. In this respect, I should like to point out to the Commissioner the useful contribution made by Amendment No 12, which provides the means not only of preventing pointless witch hunts in this context, all too easy when talking of xenophobia and racism, but also of ensuring that we do not underestimate behaviour that may be genuinely racist or xenophobic. The report then goes on to outline common minimum penalties for both natural and legal persons, but, most importantly, this report is up to date, because it does not just cover offences that occur in citizens’ everyday lives but also virtual offences, in other words those committed every day in the virtual world of the Internet. Of particular interest is the part which sees the racist component as exacerbating certain cases involving offences of other origins and types. Lastly, what is really needed to achieve these objectives is a commitment to enhance cooperation among Member States in the field of justice. This is a new initiative following on from other actions taken in the past and based on a parent action in 1996. Let us hope that this parent will in future bear other children like this report. –  I would like to add my voice to those of my fellow Members in congratulating Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou on her report. Certainly, listening to Mrs Bonino, we cannot deny the truth of what she has said. The two minutes’ speaking time restriction undoubtedly prevented her from going into more detail. This is an important issue which must certainly be dealt with using a different approach from the one adopted in the recent report, which focused on ‘women and fundamentalism’. If we take that approach, we will not be enabling either the women or ourselves to make any useful contribution to the growth – the cultural as well as economic growth – of these countries, and we will not be enabling these peoples as a whole to escape from a cultural and religious situation in which the human and civil rights of people in general and women in particular are being trampled underfoot. I therefore feel that the issue must be addressed from the perspective outlined by Mrs Bonino, for the matter has hitherto been little debated in Parliament. However, with regard to this report, as it stands, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and make two recommendations to the Commission and the Council. They are contained in the text before us but I would just like to emphasise them. The first is that the presence of women at all levels of social, economic, financial and political life in conditions of equality, not least as regards decision-making, is a prerequisite for democracy and therefore for peace and well-being. In everything the Union does to pursue these objectives, it must ensure that the programmes we have already implemented or are currently implementing are totally inflexible in terms of respect for the protection of rights, and that none of the work carried out by the Council towards partnerships and cooperation ever fails to take into consideration the need for these rights to be respected. –  Mr President, I too am pleased with the attention with which this Parliament and the Commission have begun to examine a subject that now affects all the countries in the European Union. Emigrating has always been a necessity and often a hope, but seldom a choice. I say this as I come from a country that has had first-hand experience of the emigration problem for a great many decades. In recent years the subject of migration into many European countries has taken on bitter and often dramatic connotations. I believe it is both necessary and useful for the various Member States to share a common position on this subject, because I cannot envisage any positive scenarios unless they are regulated by all the countries in the Union. I also think, however, that this is one of the most sensitive issues, one of those issues that, more than any other perhaps, needs to be managed; and managing it means addressing matters of visas, employment, health, citizens’ rights and duties, and citizenship. I believe the right to vote, at a local and not just a European level, should be a consequence of these rights and not a precondition, as seems to have been suggested at times in some debates in recent years. In our eagerness for integration we must not forget that our first duty, in my opinion, is to create the means for making a living in developing countries, so that everyone can find it possible to stay in their own home country. Our second duty is to facilitate the return of immigrants to their countries of origin as agents for the development and growth of their own countries. Down in third place, I put the need for Old Europe, impoverished by low birth rates and few workers, to see migration as a benefit to our countries. Having said that, there is no doubt that we should have control mechanisms to enable us to combat illegal immigration and, within the Member States, to combat breaches of the host country’s rules. –  Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mr Brok and the many speakers who have helped to present the report before us today on their work. I share the position of the many Members who have called for caution and rigour as well as boldness when we bring the accession process to a close for each individual country. The entry of the candidate countries is a decision, a political objective and a necessity for the Union’s States. The decision to allow individual countries to enter the Union is based on merit and strict compliance with the Helsinki Council and the Copenhagen criteria. I welcome the participation of the candidate countries in the Convention’s work, for it will become quite clear to them from that debate that, as well as the need for good government and combating corruption and crime, as well as economic, judicial and social reform, as well as agricultural and fund distribution policies, there is another point on which the Union is not prepared to compromise: civil rights and equal opportunities, which must be non-negotiable preconditions for EU membership. In actual fact, the present time is a phase in the enlargement of Europe. It is true that previous enlargement has been gradual, with Europe growing from the six original countries to the 15 it comprises today. What frightens us is the speed with which this new phase of enlargement is taking place, particularly considering that ten countries are joining the Union which have not long been democracies. It is for precisely this reason that we both fully support the political decision and advocate caution and the need for rigorous respect for the acquis. –  Mr President, Commissioner, I too am proud of the work Mr Esteve and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy have produced with total consensus. With this report, Europe has unambiguously defined the two priorities of its foreign policy: a policy concentrating on eastward enlargement and a policy focusing on the Mediterranean area as fundamental in the creation of a future of peace and prosperity. The Euro-Mediterranean Conference is now the only genuine, existing forum for dialogue between the Arab delegations, the Israeli delegation and the European delegation. Providing that forum for work and dialogue with tools such as the Euro-Mediterranean Development Bank and the Foundation and pursuing the MEDA programmes will allow us to create and foster an area of south-south and north-south free trade, on the one hand, and an area of dialogue, knowledge, training and communication on the other. Only thus will the common values of different civilisations be clearly revealed; only thus will understanding of and respect for the cultures, religions and histories of different peoples grow. Only thus, I feel, will we be able to create a far-reaching area of democracy, economic growth and emergence from poverty, which are essential conditions if we are to promote and uphold the need for an area within which there is a shared policy of respect for the individual and safeguarding of human rights, which is the prerequisite for the success of any peace policy. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak today to express a concern which we also share about what we can achieve as a result of the Lisbon decisions. In particular, with a view to the forthcoming Stockholm employment summit, I think we may have to develop some methods which might improve the evaluation of the goals gradually achieved, and emphasise the need to intervene forcefully and rapidly when those objectives are not achieved. As many honourable Members have stated, we set ourselves an extremely important goal at Lisbon: achieving a competitive and dynamic Europe and, above all, a knowledge-based European society. We also decided to compare our successes and, if you like, our shortcomings, with another great economy, the economy of the United States. At present, United States statistics represent a target for us to achieve, in terms of both employment and, to some extent, development and economic growth, taking into account, of course, our totally different society and community, something that should not be forgotten. I too believe that the goals of full employment, respect for a social market economy and rapid progress towards liberalisation in many sectors are objectives we can and must set ourselves. However, I also think account needs to be taken of two things in Europe: the first is that the situations are completely different, and we are trying to solve problems that have already been solved there, and comparing different situations by applying the same rules does not seem to be … . –  Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I am tabling a proposal for a resolution on the Commission's report on the single facility providing medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments. The financial assistance is currently governed by Council Regulation No 1969 of 1988. This mechanism can be activated either at the request of a Member State or under Article 119 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, a provision which remains in force during the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union for the States which are covered by a derogation, currently Denmark, the United Kingdom and Sweden. The regulation and the proposal for a regulation have merged two mechanisms (medium-term financial assistance and the Community loan mechanism intended to provide medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments) into a single facility providing medium-term financial assistance. This proposal changes the mechanism’s ceiling. The fact that, at the moment, only three countries can benefit from it suggests that the amount hitherto available – EUR 16 billion – can be reduced. At the same time, however, past experience tells us that we cannot reduce it by very much, for the very reason that the last time the mechanism was used, in 1993, the loan was for EUR 8 billion. Therefore, although the increase in convergence of States reduces the likelihood that the mechanism will be used, it must still have sufficient resources to meet the simultaneous needs of several countries, should this be necessary. This is why we propose to reduce the amount available from EUR 16 billion to EUR 12 billion. This resolution also envisages the possibility of considering creating a special mechanism providing financial assistance to the balance of payments of the candidate countries. Clearly, this is a possibility for the future and therefore does not have a bearing on the present situation, but it is a possibility which I considered that we could at least examine in some depth so that we will be prepared should these issues arise. . –  Mr President, we too, the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, have been able to discuss this regulation. Moreover, we have had plenty of time to do so, for the opinion was, I believe, expressed last September. Indeed, we were aware of the importance of not leaving a gap between the adoption of a new regulation and the expiry of the previous one. In the Committee on Women’s Rights, we decided to emphasise, first and foremost, the need to accompany these policies with a literacy programme promoting education, training, knowledge and culture, including basic information services on communicable diseases, hygiene, health and human rights. Great importance and value were accorded to this element, precisely because we believe that all the agreements we negotiate should be accompanied by the requirement of strict observance of human rights and, in particular, by a clear demand for policies of gender equality, as a precondition for any policy on the countries in question. We are convinced that reproductive health problems are also closely linked to issues of poverty and underdevelopment. We therefore believe that it is only by pursuing this line that they can be resolved. There is, of course, an urgent need, a need which we intend to address, first and foremost, with preventive and aid policies relating to pregnancy and birth but also responding to the need to combat diseases communicable from mother to child. –  Mr President, I too welcome with great satisfaction the measure being debated today, precisely because it satisfies a series of requirements which are known, I see, to all the MEPs who have decided to discuss it in the Chamber this morning. The first ground for satisfaction is the fact that this report marks a return to research in sectors such as the pharmaceutical sector, where Europe does too little. In my opinion, the Sixth Framework Programme and the resources which have been made available under this programme bear witness to Europe’s desire to commit substantial resources to research in this sector, which not only has economic value but social and political value too. It is not by chance that holding patents and having the possibility to produce medicines and being able to influence their cost, particularly in developing countries, means being able, on the one hand, to press ahead with a development policy for us, and on the other, an aid policy for developing countries. Many of the Members have stressed how this research, which proposes to help combat diseases by increasing knowledge in order to produce new drugs and to improve existing ones, combines with other policies which we, as Europe, must press ahead with in the education and employment sectors, because education, employment and health are the only factors which can contribute to the achievement of democracy in those countries which see Europe as an increasingly firm point of reference. Mr President, although satisfied with the report, my group too feels that it must use the time available to stress that it is essential that the European Parliament continues to make use of all the resources available to it more resolutely to ensure that the issue of human rights is given greater prominence in our decision-making and that the policies we follow are more effective. I believe that, as far as human rights in general in the world are concerned – and I would single out in this broad category the rights of the child and women’s rights – there is still potential which has yet to be fully exploited in the decisions that we take regarding all the aid policies, not least in respect of developing countries, potential which we must exploit with greater determination and resolution to promote the need to respect human rights. I believe that there is a problem of information here, too, and I agree with the statement in the report regarding the need for Parliament in general and the committees handling the decisions relating to these countries’ policies, in particular, to have greater, quicker, more certain access to absolutely up-to-the-minute daily information on what is happening in those countries. To conclude, I, too, want to mention the death penalty, which is an ongoing concern for everyone and on which everyone must continue to develop a policy. –  Mr President, I too would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that this report emphasises, once again, that it is in the European Union’s interests to proceed with all the policies which are useful and necessary to achieve integration of the countries of the Western Balkans into the European structures. I too believe that we must proceed with a policy which has yielded good fruit in recent years in terms of reconstruction and, in addition, consider the next step, which is the issue of democracy and legislation in those places. These countries lie at the heart of Mediterranean Europe, and it is therefore in the common interest of all the Community institutions, as well as our duty to the peoples living in the area, to provide the aid, decisions and related measures necessary to help these countries address what we feel are the current fundamental problems: problems in the field of education and training, combating organised crime, and, in particular, the endeavours to achieve democracy. The report highlights these problems clearly. It underscores them and emphasises the role of the European Union. It also highlights the attempts – hesitant but clearly being made – to establish greater legal protection, particularly where women are concerned – which I welcome – but that is not enough. This report displays the European Union’s interest: it must be followed by more practical measures than those hitherto provided for. – Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur and I support the work that has been carried out on a subject of such major importance as the ageing population of our countries, of our continent. I feel that we should all genuinely see elderly people as our human heritage: their wisdom, their knowledge and the history of which they are the living exponents are not fully valued or exploited. There have been many sincere efforts in recent years in our countries, in Europe too, to provide systems of guarantees and dignity for all elderly people – and rightly so. Of course, more has been done in some areas than in others, and I therefore feel that Europe needs to develop policies ensuring a minimum level of guarantees and focus on the world of the elderly, a level which is the same in all the countries of the Union and must be proposed as a goal for the candidate countries too. Without a doubt, European society took as its starting point the awareness that being in economic difficulties – being poor – is always difficult, being poor and ill is both difficult and complicated, but being poor, ill and old too is absolutely awful. I feel that less has been done, on the other hand, to attempt to give the elderly a political and institutional position too, to attempt to keep all elderly people in the active world for as long as possible, to make their departure from the world of work more gradual. There you are. I feel that this is the major challenge facing us all, and that the solution lies precisely in a more flexible vision of the world of work itself, in more intelligent use of the professional skills of the people concerned. –  Mr President, I too congratulate Mrs Avilés Perea on her excellent work and on having initiated tonight's debate on the report. However, two points must certainly be stressed, which have emerged both from the debate which took place in committee and from a series of majority votes which have contributed to creating or fostering the presence of certain positions within the report which I feel are questionable. I will therefore divide the report into two parts: a first part, which I totally endorse, in which the rapporteur extremely courageously raises a major question of legality, managing to pre-empt to some extent in this report the need, which is present in all the European States, to tackle the issue of migration as a whole once and for all, in the knowledge now that the countries of the Union cannot have differing individual policies in such a problematic, sensitive field, and defining the rights and responsibilities of both the immigrants and the host countries. At the same time, within this policy, the role of the most vulnerable groups – women and children – must certainly be analysed extremely carefully. From this point of view, this aspect of the report is very useful, particularly in that it includes certain guidelines and decisions already expressed by the Tampere Council. However, I would express my concern essentially on two points. I, too, find it difficult to endorse either the creation of another observatory – for, in my opinion, observatories lead to rigidity and problems – or the use of the term 'European,' or even 'Euro-Mediterranean citizenship', which has absolutely no legal status and would cause confusion. – Thank you, Mr President, for your comprehensive response to our question. The events of recent days compel us, however, to call for a further Council initiative, for, as you will know, not only has another woman, in addition to Safiya Yakubu Hussaini, been sentenced to death by stoning – Aishatu Abubakar, whom the same court in the same region of Nigeria condemned to a similar sentence on similar grounds a few weeks ago – but the news has arrived today that, in the Sudan, a young 18-year old Christian woman named Abok Alfa Akok, who does not speak Arabic, has also been sentenced to stoning by what is, in this case, a civil, not a religious court, without being permitted a defence and without being given a linguistic translation either. Well then, I believe that the undertakings assumed by the Council are important but that, alongside them, there should also be constant protection in individual cases. I therefore place in your hands these two new cases as well as that of Safiya. , . –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the European Union’s delay and indecision with regard to the introduction of a fully-fledged Community policy on tourism, increasing attention is being paid to tourism as a sector capable of generating new jobs.  One of the reasons for the Community’s interest is the structural flexibility of this sector of the employment market, which explains its attractiveness for women and young people, to whom it often offers their first experience of employment. The importance of the tourist industry and its impact on employment – although everyone is now aware of this – is nevertheless based more on personal experience rather than on verifiable statistical data.  The fact that, due to the absence of sufficiently reliable and scientific statistical data, the tourist industry is in effect an unknown quantity has greatly limited the prospects of pursuing a consistent policy in this area and creating employment on a wider scale. It would be appropriate, therefore, to begin by summarising the impact of tourism on the lives of Union citizens and the desirability, in both economic and social terms, of promoting the European tourist industry. Firstly, I would remind you that the tourist industry is one of the infrastructures which any advanced society must have. Without it, institutions, business and the world of work could not function. Tourism must therefore be thought of as the whole range of goods and services required by individuals moving from their habitual place of residence and thus confers mobility, the characteristic feature of contemporary society. The term ‘tourism’ must no longer be solely perceived as synonymous with sun, sea and holidays, which has the effect of reducing the interest taken in the subject at institutional level. Secondly, I would like to explode a myth, taking as a starting point an apparent paradox, which is clearly highlighted by Eurostat figures: the main international tourist countries are not those traditionally regarded as tourist destinations, but on the contrary the most advanced nations, whose quality of life is one of their main attractions and most heavily promoted features. Clearly, the importance of tourism for the economy of regions traditionally regarded as tourist destinations, southern regions for example, is very different, and should be studied carefully. It is an obvious truth, and one that is measurable by other economic and social indicators, that thanks to tourism, many Mediterranean regions have undergone a radical change for the better in their economic and social system and the way of life of their inhabitants, and achieved a drastic reduction in the numbers emigrating. Social growth has occurred only in those areas where the tourist market has given rise to the development of all the activities required to meet the needs of visiting tourists, thus creating an entire productive system. In such cases, there is a measurable increase in employment as a result of the growth in tourist numbers, thus establishing a virtuous circle of growth in the local economy.  This reminds us that tourism cannot be regarded as the poor countries’ petroleum industry, because it requires huge investment in structures, infrastructures, entrepreneurship, professional expertise, social services and training; that the tourist industry is essential for the equilibrium of many regions as it provides a direct source of employment and a market for all local productive activities: agriculture, small firms in the industrial and craft sector, transport, services, retail sector, training, etc; that the development of the Community’s tourist industry is closely linked to its sustainability with regard to the Community objectives; that the varied geography and historical, cultural and environmental heritage must be protected and exploited. In my opinion, the European Union can, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, supplement the action of the Member States and contribute to consolidating the potential of tourism by means of certain measures, such as the adoption of a specific legal basis for tourism policy in the Treaties; the adoption of mechanisms within the programmes and projects set up under its regional policies and other policies of the Union, with a view to promoting tourism in all its forms: rural, environmental, cultural, conference-based, spa-related and sports-related tourism, and also tourism focusing on senior citizens, research and training; the amendment of Directive 95/57/EC on the collection of statistical information in the field of tourism; the cofinancing of projects to set up new transport services and infrastructures; the cofinancing of pilot schemes involving benchmarking and the exchange of experiences.  These and other specific measures included in my report can, in my view, lend added value to the actions that the competent national and regional authorities should foster, in order to promote tourism and create new jobs, starting with the adoption of positive fiscal measures to assist small and medium-sized firms, particularly by reducing the burden of charges on labour. .  Mr President, we are addressing in this part-session – the vote is to be held on Wednesday – a reform which, because of the interest it has raised and the debate it has prompted, is certainly one of the key elements of this legislature and one of the key stages in the opening up of the markets and the implementation of the internal market in Europe. We are approaching second reading after overcoming a number of difficulties encountered recently with translations and amendments – even now, this evening, the facility for tabling amendments is open until 7 p.m; in fact, it is about to close. In any case, this issue is of such significance as to require some in-depth comments. We have conducted a lengthy debate, both direct and indirect, with the Commission. I would like to thank Commissioner Bolkestein and all the members of his staff for losing no time in addressing the issue. We have worked on it together on many occasions, outside the Chamber, outside Parliament but within the institutions, in an attempt to achieve the best possible outcome. I would like to thank all the Members who have made useful contributions through their interest, their input and the amendments they have deemed it necessary to table. It is a major, important reform which is coming to the end of the Parliamentary process after a period which has lasted for almost the whole of this legislature. Simplification, the alignment of technological and social development and the completion of the internal market were and are still the imperative goals driving Parliament. Debate, dialogue and the diversity of political positions and national interests have stimulated and shaped the conclusions. Public works, public supply and public service contracts account for EUR 1400 billion each year in the Union, which means and shows that this legislation concerns the very powerhouse of the Community’s economy. We are drawing up general, fundamental rules, on the basis of which specific national rules will be laid down. These general rules must contain principles which will be useful to all, not just to a few, which will be useful to the Community as a whole, not just to partisan lobbies; rules which will provide certainty, transparency, fair competition and an internal market which is open to all. Procurement rules cannot and must not differ according to the value: administrative procedures may differ above or below an appropriate threshold, but the principles cannot differ. At present, the thresholds mean that only about an eighth of the sum I quoted relates to European competitions. The rest is lost because of national or regional regulations. For this reason, I for my part acknowledge that the thresholds should be abolished. However, since that cannot happen, a requirement has been proposed which, moreover, already exists indirectly, according to which the basic principles of the legislation must, at any event, always be observed, including by independent territorial legislation. It is necessary for all possible procedures to be modernised and for the use of increasingly rapidly developing technologies to be permitted and codified. The awarding bodies will thus benefit from the proposals made, adopting electronic systems not just for the management of competitions and the receiving of bids but for the actual auctions too. Of course, auctions are required to be limited to the purchasing of codified, standardised materials. We want firms’ freedom of organisation to be accorded due value and made use of, with every possibility of subcontracting left open for that share of the work which, once identified, can be entrusted to firms for whom the principal contractor is answerable. In order not to complicate participation in the competition, it is appropriate for partners to be identified after the work has been subcontracted. The complex issue – and this has been a very controversial point – of awarding design and execution contracts jointly, appreciated and appreciable for some specific categories of contracts, cannot be a hard and fast rule. It is clearly appropriate and natural to separate services and works, just as it can be clearly appropriate and natural to treat them jointly, subject to prior justification. By respecting this principle we are consolidating qualitative competition too, which would otherwise be in danger of being squeezed out in a purely economic and technological context, being moreover the prerogative of the company alone and therefore not always beneficial to the contracting authority. This principle is the basis for the rapporteur’s proposals. We must remember that we are dealing with a directive which is of high and singular economic importance and, as such, cannot and must not contain rules or principles which are governed by specific legislation such as specific social or environmental requirements. The environmental and social dimensions have processes which are defined and can be defined specifically and therefore made mandatory by means of other vehicles and in other contexts. However, some principles are laid down and proposed in the provision which refer particularly to respect for the needs of disadvantaged groups and the legislation on safety in the workplace. The environment – the great victim of our time – is also dealt with exhaustively. Any further excesses in this area are to be avoided. With contracts being awarded on the basis of the most economically advantageous price, there has to be a weighting criterion properly defined in calls for tenders, in that, otherwise, there would be a discretionary power in the  application of parameters which has created many legal problems throughout Community territory in the past. The confidentiality of information which, according to the pre-established procedures, is provided to the contracting entity by the interested parties will be protected and safeguarded by specific rules. As regards ‘in-house’ contracts, there are conflicting points of view: the representatives of producers’ associationsare decidedly against reserving contracts for an enterprise of which the contracting entity is part, even if it has independent legal personality, without a competition, and your rapporteur agrees with them. It has been proposed to extend the causes of exclusion where there are sentences for subsequent offences relating tothe tendering company on grounds of bankruptcy, unfair behaviour, failure to respect collective work contracts or drug dealing. Lastly, it has been proposed to set up an independent agency to provide control mechanisms for contracts in the Member States. Without prejudice to the possibility of instigating legal proceedings, we hope that this agency will be able to verify the procedures followed and also be able to cancel awards which do not comply with the legislation. In conclusion, Mr President, the content of the rules under debate, because of their economic significance and because of their employment, social, environmental and economic implications, can be described without any shadow of doubt as essential to the organisation of modern-day society. Differing political positions and different political or bureaucratic points of view mean that a widely supported process is not possible. On the other hand, rejection and referral to committee or conciliation as the – not unproblematic – final stage in producing legislation is both possible and desirable. All this is in the interests of the Union and in the interests of an internal market which must become increasingly consolidated and transparent. The vote taken the day after tomorrow will confirm the democratic process, which there is no doubt that we must all follow. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1980 something happened in Italy, the scale of which, in terms of numbers of victims, made it a disaster. As is typical of Italian justice, 19 years later, nothing has yet been said with any certainty. In relation to this grave episode – and the previous speakers highlighted this – secrecy and doubts have surrounded military bodies, institutions, governments and nations for two decades. The lack of certainty encourages prejudices and vague judgements. The victims, their families and the entire international community have the right to uncover the truth, not in twenty years or more but as quickly as possible. This Parliament must oblige all the States concerned and individual institutions to close this chapter, which is one of the many Italian mysteries where the truth is never found, and which has seen high level involvement and assistance. The Italian and international communities will be grateful to this Parliament and they will regain confidence in the institutions. This will honour the memory of the many innocent victims. –  Mr President, today we are tackling an extremely important subject which requires great reflection over extremely long periods of time, and, moreover, we are doing so on the basis of a wave of emotion which, seeing as we are not specialists, is ill-suited to the politics we are obliged to carry out here. With regard to the precautionary principle, to which previous speakers have referred, I am somewhat concerned because, although we are tackling the issue of BSE, I do not imagine anyone would ever contemplate saying that we should not eat any type of meat, even in the absence of well-founded scientific results. As the Commissioner, with whom I am in complete agreement, said just now, we must first examine what the environmental situation in the region was, but we must also ascertain, with great care of course, the relationship of cause and effect between the equipment used – the weapons – and the impact on health. I must, moreover, point out that depleted uranium is used in civilcontexts in many other sectors, and we should certainly investigate these extremely thoroughly. We must also bear in mind the risk of inciting panic, where strong positions are adopted, among those who send staff to the region and those who are sent there by the Member States. It is my view that we should analyse this issue extremely carefully and confirm that we certainly all have good cause to be grateful to NATO for its past and future interventions. We do not support the call for a moratorium. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the plan to reform the Commission, we are progressing towards the new European institutions: new in that changes were made to the old institutions following the problems which arose during past management and on the basis of the lengthy, exhaustive and in many places complex report of the independent experts. As in the case of anything new which changes established situations, care and precision are clearly necessary. Those with legislative responsibility cannot, and must not, let themselves be influenced by emotion and must not accept proposals  which, although the product of brilliant minds, do not follow the principle of representativeness. The experts, as such, are specialists, but the legislator cannot be either their obedient servant or another expert: he must hear, consult, reflect and then produce on his own initiative, or else he may as well give up politics and leave law-making to the experts. We would point out that part of the reform, which was unwisely adopted in September last year in line with the experts' proposal, was then rejected by the Court of Justice. The entire structure of the Commission, which is a fundamental institutional body of the Union's current system, implementsEuropean Union policy as willed by Parliament and the Council. Parliament must succeed in reforming the appropriate and necessary parts of the Commission without undue influence from outside, in order indeed to guarantee efficiency and transparency but also to make those who work there more aware of themselves, of what they are, of what they do and for whom they work. As I see it, there is no structure of greater importance or substance in the world: 15 nations, soon to become 20 or more, an entire continent; the most industrialised part of the globe thrives in the Union and, therefore, in the Commission through its structures. The officials working in the Commission and Parliament must be top quality, aware of this and paid accordingly. They must work but they must also receive all the guarantees and prerogatives appropriate to their job. They must be accountable but not subjected to humiliation. If we give due recognition to those who have to be good, hard workers in order to be here, we will achieve excellent institutions. Otherwise, everything will regress and the same problems may well arise as in the past, those very problems which have prompted us to carry out these reforms. –  Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Lienemann on her sensitive approach towards the environment, ably demonstrated in the two reports we have discussed this evening.  Two minutes is certainly not long enough to deal with such an important topic. So I will simply appeal to the Commissioner to undertake full responsibility for such an important issue. For five years, I have been the representative of the Committee on the Environment in a regional organisation, which assuredly does not have Parliament’s broad perspective.  The environment is in a parlous state. Like a number of previous speakers, I, too, wish to consider the economic problem and the problem of finding funding for projects, which, in my view, should be incorporated into the pubic domain.  As regards funding, EUR 613 million is not enough. Even EUR 850 million is not enough. At the end of August 1999, I took part in a meeting of the Committee of the Environment in which it was said that EUR 2 million, or ITL 4 000 billion, should go towards eliminating or, at any rate, reducing smoking. However, the environment constitutes a far bigger and more serious problem than smoking. EUR 850 million – assuming that such a figure is actually agreed – believe me, is not enough, in practical terms, to allow any type of project to be carried out.  In many areas the parks which are a fundamental element in the LIFE programme have been established. But creating parks with very limited financial resources, without any system of signs is inefficient and ineffectual. I would therefore ask Parliament and the Commission to give the matter their full attention. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the Parliament’s rapporteur I must thank the Commission and Commissioner Bolkestein for initiating this important piece of legislation. There are tens of millions of professional persons in the Union. By virtue of the activities they perform they regulate and govern the life of every citizen. The professions are the most important productive social group in existence. Their activities embrace every aspect of cultural and educational experience, individual creativity, assertiveness, advocacy and responsibility. It is the social group most concerned with care and protection, most in need of clear-cut rules to be respected. Each State independently and legitimately organises, in keeping with its own social and historical traditions, educational courses and lays down its own rules for entering the various professions. The Union must guarantee freedom of movement and freedom of establishment, equal rights of access to employment, competition, safety, health and freedom, whilst fully completing the internal market by providing reliable guarantees for professionals and consumers on an equal footing. In real life there are huge differences within national legal systems and enormous discrepancies between different States. The complexity of the subject-matter coupled with the different nature of various professional activities, self-serving interests and errors of political judgement give rise to out-and-out confusion and in-fighting within the political and professional classes. The professions must learn to pursue an all-embracing unity of purpose in their own interests and in the interests of the consumers who rely upon them from day to day. Politicians must abandon their superficial and partial view of the issue and tackle the sector as a whole. The attitude of some politicians and of certain representatives, together with ignorance coupled with the arrogance of those who deliberately confuse themselves and others, harm the professions and the community. I call on the Commission, which I thank again for having drafted the proposal, to consider Parliament’s amendments not as an obstructive act, but rather as the legislature making use of its legitimate and rightful power as a democratic representative body and, for this reason, I call for the utmost cooperation in the interests of the Union. Professionals are atypical providers of services precisely because they are more productive in intellectual terms than in terms of specific resources. The services they provide are not the same and often cannot be compared with each other, nor can the principle of competition easily be applied to the sector because, over and above price, a professional service is primarily the result of intellectual creativity which stems from both the cultural background and a lively intellect. Not all professions are equal; the professions more at the cutting edge, such as those concerned with health, freedom and safety, are not on a par with those concerned with commercial, craft, industrial or economic activities. Access to such professions is regulated by States in accordance with local tradition and culture and is also subject to responsibilities and assurances offering minimum guarantees for consumers. Harmonisation does not mean bland similarity. The British system should not be exported but harmonised with other systems for the purpose of achieving a level playing field within the Union. No one person represents everybody, only the legislature has general responsibility. We have the duty to legislate not in the interests of some arrogant lobbyist but in the general interest: hearing the arguments put by all sides and reaching an individual decision is the primary duty of those mandated to work on behalf of the Community. The proposal is based on the following assumptions: recognition of five levels of qualification, initial continuous training, the free movement of professional services and not of pieces of paper; consultation with the professions; the thresholds proposed by recognised bodies; compliance with authorised national structures, whether bodies, colleges or associations; pro-forma registration; equality of rights and duties; legislative certainty; the elimination of bureaucratic red tape; the mutual recognition of professions exercised in individual States and, where necessary, at levels higher than corresponding qualifications; compliance with insurance, social security and trade union rules. Any objections are self-seeking rhetoric designed to stymie the progress of the internal market and this important sector. Any objections run the risk of being seen as a sop to self-interested lobby groups which do not act in the collective interest. The directive is important irrespective of its individual contents. I am not putting up barriers; the overall picture is more important than the detail. I hope that everyone views this from a European perspective and not from a lobbyist’s position. . –Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of Mr Tajani, as a member of the same delegation and the same committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the Commission on the complicated content of its initiative, but we must not let go of the importance of regulating the audiovisual policy in the age of high technology in which we live and which will become more and more important for our lives in the near future. Due to the complexity of the material and the short time available to me, I will restrict myself to a few recapitulatory statements which I consider essential and which I hope the Commission will take into due consideration. The free movement of information and freedom of expression serve now to safeguard rights and freedoms and will always do so. The citizens' confidence in the audiovisual service must be won through compliance with the principles of the protection of human dignity and of minors. The area in question, which is constantly developing, is in need of detailed rules, but they must not be too rigid or they will rapidly become obsolete. Technology and content cannot be governed by the same legislation: technology must be neutral and content must be regulated. The system of funding must comply with the principles of proportionality and transparency and must not influence the market or competition. Where a commercial activity is associated with a public service, the keeping of separate accounts will make the compensation for the service rendered transparent, making it possible to prevent any disguised State aid and to allow private firms to provide the public service as well. No national restriction must be placed on transposition, in order to achieve genuine European harmonisation, both now and in the event of future growth. Including self-regulation codes in the legislative framework will ensure transparency, responsibility and the equal status of public and commercial operators. Clearly, in the context of new technologies, a situation where State subsidies to public service broadcasters are used for commercial ends must be avoided, as this would distort the principle of competitiveness with private companies instead of ensuring compliance with specific content obligations. Lastly, we must guarantee multiplicity and pluralism of bids and provide all operators with the possibility of playing an innovative and leading role, thus liberalising access to public financing. –  Mr President, I am surprised that Members can joke or argue about the fact that a Member of Parliament has been arrested on European Union soil. It would appear to be a very serious incident which, moreover, is linked precisely to matters we have been discussing for some time in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. To get to the point, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market proposes not to waive the parliamentary immunity of Mr Ribeiro e Castro. This proposal –and this is what I would like Members to consider – is based on the contents of the Treaties and on certain well-established principles. Firstly, immunity is a guarantee of the independence of the European Parliament and its Members in relation to all other authorities; secondly, relinquishment of parliamentary immunity by the Member concerned has no legal effect; thirdly, immunity is valid throughout all sessions, including while Members are travelling to and from the place of meeting of the European Parliament; fourthly, the immunity of Members of the European Parliament is independent of national parliamentary procedures, even if the law of the State of origin is applied; fifthly, the political aspect of the case,the possibility of, any political motives behindthe request for waiver, the amount of time that has elapsed between the alleged facts and the request for waiver and the seriousness of the charge are always taken into consideration; sixthly, sometimes the punishment for the alleged facts differs from State to State; seventhly, the aim is certainly to ensure equal treatment for all Members of different nationalities. On the basis of these principles, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market calls upon the House to adopt the Zimeray report. However, Mr President, I must take this opportunity to stress two points, which, I repeat, it is the duty of Parliament and all its Members to consider fully. The provisions of Articles 9 and 10 refer to the beginning of the European Community, when the Members of this Parliament were members of national parliaments, and, in that context, the reference to national immunities is clear. However, we have to be aware that, nowadays, the European Parliament plays a major role in the balance between the institutions, and I feel that it is extremely important to make the European Parliament fully independent of the Member States. Parliament must always be informed of any proceedings to be initiated against its Members, and if the judicial authority of the place where the alleged facts have taken place does not inform Parliament then it is the responsibility of the Members to do so directly, for it is Parliament which has to decide which provisions should apply, as, moreover, is the case in some European countries. Mr President, I trust that I shall not have to apply for political asylum in a country which is not my own at any point in the future, but, above all, I feel that the statement delivered in the Chamber on the Member who has been arrested in Scotland should be deemed to be clear notification by a competent authority. .  Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating you on your election to the presidency of this House and I wish you and the entire House a successful two and a half years. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to vote on the directive on public supply contracts, public service contracts and public works contracts and the directive on specific sectors – entities operating in the water, energy and transport sectors – in plenary. The Commission worked on them for four years, conducting a series of hearings, studies and assessments. Then Parliament worked on them for a further two years. A very well-attended public hearing took place and the Committee of the Regions, trade associations and professionals from all over Europe were also consulted.  The fact that such a huge amount of work has been necessary should not surprise us, considering that public works contracts take up around 15% of the Union’s total GDP, that is over EUR 1 500 billion. It is estimated that only 20% of that sum is actually covered by the provisions of the current directives in that the threshold above which it is mandatory to apply them is relatively high and, in any case, more or less equal to that laid down in the agreements for the participation of third countries. The current directives are now outdated and therefore need revising and bringing into line with new technologies and new market trends. It was precisely the need to increasingly develop the internal market which prompted the Commission to research and propose the directives in question. The subject is of considerable importance and could not and still must not be treated lightly. In addition to individual Members, four Parliamentary committees delivering opinions and the committee responsible – the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market – examined the texts and tabled amendments: almost more than half this House has been able to examine, debate and amend the texts. It is a simple matter to summarise the contents: they revise and modernise the current directives, they introduce electronic auctions; they clarify the standards on technical specifications, they define rules on award criteria, they simplify the thresholds and they introduce a Common Procurement Vocabulary. Overall, the proposals deserve our support and, indeed, have it: we are all aware of how important they are and we all want their path to be smooth. However, the most significant past and present problems which have emerged and which are the subject of debate within the different political groupings, and between the groupings and between national representatives need to be highlighted. The thresholds, or the value below which the directives are not binding. This value, which – as I have said – is already relatively high, corresponds, however, to the value laid down in the agreements with third countries, in line with the Commission’s proposal. It has been proposed to increase this value. That would raise two problems: it would reduce the number of work contracts required to comply with the directives, possibly to the advantage of third countries whose existing contracts cannot be reviewed. It would also allow contracting authorities to operate outside the common rules, with the associated risks. However, it has been maintained that, even if the thresholds are raised, the number of contracts awarded to European tenderers will not decrease because, below a certain value, it is not economically beneficial for businesses to operate away from their region, still less their country. A further consideration is the possibility that each Member State and each regional government could apply local rules where the threshold is not reached. That would mean that the higher the thresholds, the greater the disparities between legislation within the Union. Thus, the rules within the Union would become even less uniform. In my opinion, whatever the thresholds, we must not allow there to be differing legislation within the Union. That would shrink, rather than expand the common market; it would also make it possible for individual territorial legislative authorities to restrict access in their regional or national territory purely to local operators. This should only happen where the matter is not regulated by the directives. Thus, the general contents of the directives must be included in national or regional legislation as well, and an amendment has been tabled proposing this. Another major issue is environmental and social concerns. It has been proposed that the directive should incorporate specific rules governing these areas. This suggestion has prompted broad, far-reaching debate and could lead to the report being referred back to committee if a position supported by a sufficient majority is not achieved at the vote. I feel that a law intended to further the internal market’s development in an economic sector and increase competitiveness cannot introduce principles which are not already laid down by the sector’s legislation. The Commission’s proposal contains sufficient provisions as it is to ensure that all the principles in force on the environment and workers’ rights are respected in the drawing up of calls for tender. This legislation cannot be expanded or altered by means of directives whose scope should be limited to works, supply and service contracts. The related amendments, adopted, moreover, at the vote by a number of committees delivering opinions and by the committee responsible, seek to introduce new rules. Were these amendments also to be adopted in plenary, I feel that it would be better to keep the current texts unaltered rather than to have texts which, although more up-to-date, could well mean a step backwards in basic areas. There is a further issue which these texts cannot disregard but which the Commission has failed to deal with adequately: intellectual services. The time has come to make a clear distinction between intellectual services and executive services, between design and execution. This is a difficult concept for certain trade associations to take on board: as they see it, they are defending long-established positions. However, intellectual activity cannot be considered to be the same as manufacturing something and a company cannot do everything. It cannot carry out both design and execution, except in exceptional cases or where specific technologies are involved. There are two of reasons for this:  are not quantifiable: no two ideas are alike. The history of Europe as a whole, give or take a century, is full of different kinds of works which have survived the passage of time because of their artistic value. Not everything, not every service can be compared to a work of art, but the products of the mind cannot be confused with mere execution. An executing company possesses skills and experience and executive technology and is therefore the most suitable company to design and implement others’ ideas on a technical level, but that is all, with a few rare exceptions. By separating intellectual services from executive services we will be according the professions and the products of the mind their due value. Joint contract awards, where contracts for executive design alone and execution are awarded together, are appropriate if there are intellectual service providers qualified as such according to the prevailing legislation in the company or attached to it. These considerations are the basis both for the amendment which makes it possible to award contracts for the design and execution of works either separately or together but requires justification to be produced where mixed contracts are awarded, and for the amendment which clearly defines what is meant by preliminary project paper, final project paper and executive project paper. Lastly, Mr President, two directives are before Parliament which are essentially similar in that certain specific sectors have been liberalised or will be in the not-too-distant future. Telecommunications are already considered to have been liberalised and are therefore not being taken into consideration. The gradual liberalisation of the water, energy and transport sectors, monitored directly by the Commission or, upon request, by the individual States, will allow the second directive to expire without making it necessary to amend the first directive. Overall, I hope that objective considerations will prompt us to adopt provisions which are specific to the sectors without expanding on them dangerously, provisions which will increasingly further the development of the internal market, which take into account the forthcoming accession to the Union of other countries which have their own traditions and needs, and which will make our rules increasingly uniform rather than fragmented. Furthermore, I feel we ought to acknowledge that the work carried out by the Commission in its proposal deserves our greatest appreciation. Lastly, I have to say that I am proud to have helped to develop and, I hope, improve legislation which both contributes to the building of a more united, stronger Europe and also curbs the fraud and malpractice which very often prevail in economics. Precisely in order to prevent loopholes, it is better for the directives to suffer a setback, should this prove necessary, than to have rules which are too loose. –  Mr President, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I fully agree, of course, with what the rapporteur has just said. I would, however, like to point out to you, Mr President, and to the House, a further consideration which the rapporteur, not being of Italian origin, was not able to highlight. Mr Musotto is already on trial in Italy for this incident. In this situation, and in many similar situations too, a principle is being overlooked inasmuch as we take as a basis – or some people do – the erroneous interpretation of what is, in actual fact, the law. The Treaties lay down that we are all subject on national territory to the laws, and therefore the immunities, which apply to the national parliaments. In our case, however, we are not taking into account – or someone, in Mr Musotto’s case, has not taken into account, and that is why I am pointing it out, Mr President – the fact that the immunity granted to the European Parliament – not to its Members but to Parliament itself – is, in any case, completely independent of national arrangements. No one – neither the Court nor the Public Prosecution Department which has opened the proceedings relating toMr Musotto– has applied to the European Parliament for authorisation: there has been no request or notification. Mr Musotto has had to make the request and inform us of his situation himself; the Presidency and the Committee on Legal Affairs have expressed an opinion and the opinion will now, with tomorrow’s vote, provided that it is still in line with the Committee on Legal Affairs’ proposal, become a Parliamentary document. Mr President, it is essential that the outcome of tomorrow’s vote is enforced outside this Housetoo, where the Public Prosecution Department in question is concerned, for it is essential not just that it is clear to everybody but – seeing as so much hangs on that word ‘immunity’in my country – that it is enforced as a general principle as well as in the case in point. Parliament is autonomous, and this has been practice and consolidated case law since Parliament was first established, since Parliament was elected by universal suffrage: too many people forget this. I therefore ask, Mr President, not just for the House’s decision to be communicated to those to whom it directly relates but for a clear, precise, unambiguous principle to be established, which, thus far, has certainly not been followed by certain courts. –  Madam President, the case of Mr Pacheco Pereira has been carefully examined by the Legal Affairs Committee: the recommendation, which was approved and which is tabled before the House today, is not to reject the request for waiver of Parliamentary immunity. The reasons and justifications for this are given in Mr MacCormick’s excellent report, and the grounds are the following: influences deriving from nationality or affiliation to a particular party cannot, and must not, be permitted; the legal basis must be sound and final; immunity is not a Member’s personal privilege but a guarantee of the independence of Parliament and its Members in relation to other authorities; the date of the alleged deed and the personal desire of the interested party to relinquish their immunity are of no importance. The reference made in the Protocol to national legislation does not mean that the European Parliament is being passed over but is in connection with the procedure, while every Parliament – including, in the case in point, the European Parliament – preserves its authority in its autonomous decisions. When all is said and done, Mr Pacheco Pereira was performing a political activity and cannot therefore be considered responsible for any crime. That is the position of the European People’s Party. We would also like to point out that, if Mr Pacheco Pereira had been Italian, proceedings would have been brought against him without the European Parliament knowing anything about it. The Italian judiciary does not ask for authorisation when the person in question is a Member of the European Parliament and ignores every principle of the respect due to this institution. Some Members of Parliament have already been taken to court during this parliamentary term without a request being put forward for waiver of parliamentary immunity. Personally, I was not able to intervene to condemn these actions in that it concerned members of my own party who have always been political targets, and my involvement would therefore have appeared exploitative. However, the incident has been repeated again, and this time, although the Member concerned is a member of the European People’s Party, he is not from the same political party or persuasion as I am in Italy. Proceedings were brought against Mr Cocilovo without Parliament being informed, indeed in contempt of Parliament. This is an extremely serious matter, Madam President, that you cannot ignore. The autonomy of the European Parliament is at stake! – Mr President, the importance of this directive has already been emphasised by those who have spoken before me, but in recent years it has been frequently highlighted and reflected upon specifically in order to achieve a result like the one that we have obtained. I will not, therefore, dwell on the importance or the content of the directive, which have already been the subject of many meetings and many debates. I would merely like to quickly take the opportunity to make two remarks: the first is to point out that this directive will enter into force just when enlargement takes place, making things run more smoothly not just for the 15 current Member States, but also for the 25 which will, in a few months’ time, be Members of our Union. I strongly welcome what Commissioner Bolkestein said as regards quality. I tried many times, as rapporteur, to stress the issue of quality above all. I know that the Commission is moving in this direction with other initiatives, and I therefore hope that, when a contract is awarded using the principle of the quality/price ratio, quality will always come out on top, above all in professional services. Having, as rapporteur, spent four years on this issue, together with many other Members, I would conclude by impartially thanking all those responsible for such an important result for the European Union: the chairman of the Conciliation Committee, to which I dedicated a considerable amount of my time, for having conducted the final stage in the committee extremely proficiently; and the Commission, represented by Commissioner Bolkestein. I would also, however, like to mention Mr Vattela and all his team, with whom we worked for a long time, often disagreeing but certainly in the constructive spirit of the European Union. I would, furthermore, like to mention and thank the Chairman, now the Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs, who chaired the committee and did a great deal of work on this issue, namely Mrs de Palacio; the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who gave me this task, and for doing so I therefore thank the Chairman Mr Poettering; the current Chairman, Mr Gargani, and also all the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, in particular Mrs Berger who, as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the Party of European Socialists, was so patient and with whom we concluded a significant process; my colleague Mr Lehne, coordinator of the European People’s Party within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market; the lawyer Mr Preto, who was certainly extremely valuable in bringing about everything that we have achieved; all the shadow rapporteurs; and, to conclude, the Italian Presidency. During the last six months, the Presidency has finished a task that began a long time before the Spanish Presidency and, together with Mr Buttiglione and all of the Italian delegation, it has allowed us, for everyone’s benefit, to bring this story to a close. Having dedicated most of this parliamentary term to this activity, I am happy. Now a new one is beginning, but this is certainly a milestone for the conclusion of the European internal market. I therefore thank everyone; I thank you, Mr President, and, once again, all the Members for the opportunity given to me. –  Madam President, at the beginning of this legislature, we all agreed, and we still agree, that certain sectors of both the Commission and the other European institutions need reform. Inside the Commission, it has emerged that over 1200 posts needed to achieve fundamental strategic objectives are unfilled. According to the Commission, part of that deficit can be made up by rationalising and redistributing the existing workforce. That approach deserves support, but it anticipates that some members of staff are not capable of adapting to the new tasks. To solve the problem, the need arises to give such staff incentives to choose favourable, mutually agreed early retirement as a unique, one-off package. This hypothesis rightly recognises the past contribution of the staff involved, and gives them the option of alternative employment elsewhere. The Union does not suffer economic overload and it is not obligatory to take the package. To conclude, my verdict is positive. However, I do not support the Ferber amendments. Reform is an exceptional event and should be regarded as such. I would like to express great appreciation of the rapporteur’s really excellent and influential work, and the same appreciation applies to the proposals from the heads of delegations, which extend that solution to all the institutions of the Union. Finally, great appreciation is due to all the employees of the Union, those who choose early retirement and those who remain in working life, because it is also thanks to their enthusiastic work that Europe continues to advance briskly towards the future. Mr President, there are two things I must say by way of introduction. Firstly, I was the rapporteur for Parliament's report on the proposal for a directive referred to by Commissioner Monti. Secondly, a great deal of alarm has been caused in Europe, and particularly in my own country, by the Commissioner's various initiatives in terms of a series of research studies, of statistical data on charging structures and behavioural methodologies. Let us talk about the professions then. I believe that we all need to consider just what the word ‘profession’ means and its impact on the public. Generally speaking, professionals – of which there are several million in Europe – have daily contact with almost everyone in the world. In some ways, they safeguard safety, health and freedom. There is a great deal of confusion in general between different types of professionals: intellectual professionals are quite a different kettle of fish from professionals in general. As regards competition – and I am afraid that I do not have time to go into the detail I would like in some areas – competition in general means arguing about a price. When it comes to issues like safety, freedom and health, however, professional services mean having qualifications and levels of education that are certainly out of the ordinary and, in any case, not within everyone's grasp. Certainly, when we talk about competition we cannot talk in terms of prices but we should talk in terms of quality. Quality is something altogether different, because it is quality that ensures health, freedom and safety. This does not mean, as I see it, that we can disregard the question of competition, but we simply need to consider what kind of competition we are talking about. For example, there is absolutely no way that you can compare two different items of handcraft with two different operations by thoracic surgeons. By way of conclusion, Mr President, I do not believe that one should make sweeping generalisations. Professional associations are by no means simply closed shops; they have a function as regards training and lifelong learning, which provides consumers with certainty. Poor, badly functioning legislation that often forces professional associations to act in undesirable ways should not be used as an excuse to abolish the associations themselves. . –  Mr President, in view of the importance of the matter, I would just like to ask the Commissioner to clarify something. In any case, I would like to thank him for all his comments, which were certainly important from my point of view, although I do maintain – and I will do so tomorrow – that Parliament should have the autonomy to decide on a political basis rather than on the basis of other factors. However, his response regarding Amendment No 147 does not make sense at all: while the Commission is against raising the thresholds – which, as was said during the hearings, meetings and debates within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I believe is because it wants the directives on works contracts to be applied as widely as possible – according to what the Commissioner has just said, raising the thresholds would actually reduce the number of works contracts. Now then, Amendment No 147 seeks specifically to open up works contracts to competition, and I cannot understand why the Commission is opposed to this. I would be grateful to the Commissioner if, either now or later in private, by some means or other, he could explain to me what part of Amendment No 147 is unacceptable. It is important, Mr President, for this is no trivial matter. I repeat, if it is not appropriate to do so now because it is time to suspend our work or move on to something else, I am quite prepared, if the Commissioner agrees, even to meet him afterwards so that he can explain to me what is wrong with Amendment No 147, which, as I see it, ensures that absolutely all works contracts, of whatever type, can be governed by European legislation. –  Mr President, a legislative framework on environmental liability is necessary because it is right that the polluter should pay. However, the legislation must be well-balanced and take into consideration the expressed requirements of European industry. The position adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which is summarised in Mr Manders’ report – and I would like to thank Mr Manders for thisimportant document–is an acceptable compromise, although it does involve some sacrifices. Some of the amendments being tabled now are particularly dangerous, in that they would make it impossible for operators to quantify insurance coverage. The definition of environmental damage is central to the structure of the directive, as are the definitions of biodiversity and biodiversity damage. As I see it, Amendments Nos 23, 84 and 98 are unacceptable: if an incident does not have harmful effects, then it is risk, not damage we should be talking about. Amendment No 95 is not acceptable either, in that it disregards the polluter pays principle. Indeed, the concept of liability is independent of the relationship of indefeasible right to use a site. The definition of GMO soil contamination is inappropriate in that it is part of a general definition which does not list all the sources of contamination. There needs to be a reference to proportional liability, not joint and several liability, which would create a system based on mistrust. Prevention can and must continue to be the highest priority in activities which might affect the environment. Lastly, the financial guarantees: in order to allow the insurancemarket to consolidate, we need to ensure maximum flexibility even after the first five years of application of the new legislation. I therefore urge the Members to support the Committee on Legal Affairs’ compromise, which is a clear, powerful signal furthering environmental protection but does not penalise European industry. –  Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the substantial and significant content of this directive. I have only been a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for a few days, and therefore I have not had the opportunity to follow its entire course. Over the past few days, I have only been able to familiarise myself with it. The speaker before me was saying that this type of installation is very widespread in Europe – it certainly is in my country, which includes almost all of the Alps as well as the Apennines. So we are dealing with structures, and a sphere of activity which are of great concern to us. As I was saying, the content of this directive is all very noteworthy, and we certainly agree with it. In this way, we are giving the go-ahead to the free movement of technologies in this regard, and to the free movement of supplies. As was said a short while ago, the route has been opened to competition in this sector which, in the field of technology and in the field of safety, is essential because competition is exactly what it is – it makes technology advance.  I have read carefully the content of the directive and from a technical point of view, I still find some points unclear. Of course, the directive lays down principles, gives specific instructions, brings into line and also harmonises legislation within the Member States on what has to be an essential goal – safety. However, in the area of safety and in the area of technology, specifications, parameters, characteristics and materials used become fundamentally important. Levels of maintenance and planning times also become vital. Now, from my point of view, certainly the technical provisions which will follow this directive – and which will be laid down in other places and after other meetings – will form the basic element in defining the authorisation of this directive in all the Member States.  In this sense, and knowing which parameters will be examined from a purely technical point of view, I would ask whether it is possible for Parliament, and particularly the Commission, to be kept informed. Above all, I ask whether it is possible for the Commission to inform us what the result of the implementation of this directive will be, from a purely technical point of view. –  Mr President, we certainly endorse and support the outcome reached in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, presented to us by Mr Zimeray, because our Parliamentary immunity must be such as to allow us to use expressions, albeit as moderate as possible, of course, on political matters in every speech that politicians have to make in various different circumstances, whether they are made live on public occasions or reported through the general media. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to point out certain aspects of immunity, all or, at any rate, some of which I would like to explore in greater detail, despite the fact that they have already been mentioned by Mr Zimeray. As we always state in the reports of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, our Parliamentary immunity is a European immunity and is therefore independent of national procedures. That is because this institution, the only European institution to be elected by universal suffrage, must be independent of any other European institution, as we always state in our reports. In reality, however, we adhere to the clear provisions of the Treaties, the Rules of Procedure and the Statute of Parliament, with the result that this is not the case. I will develop this point in my forthcoming speeches. In any case, I endorse what was said in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market: we recommend that the immunity of the Member in question should not be waived. . –  Commissioner, it is true that Mr Lehne is not here, but please feel free to respond anyway. Your responses will then be conveyed to Mr Lehne. This is a broad debate which reaches much further than the people involved. –  Mr President, I too should like to congratulate Mr Wieland on the excellent work he has done on this proposal for a directive, the content of which is highly technical. Even though I am an engineer, it was not easy even for me to understand all the mechanisms. Compared with the Commission’s original proposal, the amendments adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market have the effect of facilitating the free movement of goods in Europe and improving both production aimed at consumers and consumers’ health. Indeed, in the end, the text will be clearer and forgery of the CE marking will be more difficult. The debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs focused on a number of points. One of these has already been mentioned. Article 14(3) of the amended Lifts Directive contained a reference aimed at excluding from its scope lifting devices with a speed of less than 0.15 metres per second. This was to exempt low-risk devices from the burden of compliance. Such devices also include lift platforms for the disabled or elderly. The Committee on Legal Affairs rightly rejected the amendments aimed at introducing more binding parameters than those laid down by the Commission regarding speed, distance of travel and use by authorised persons of lift platforms. Had they been adopted, these amendments would have considerably limited the use of such devices and would have made many platforms already installed in public places and private dwellings in our countries unusable without valid safety grounds. The impact really would have been very, very negative. The provision would have helped turn the citizens against the process of European integration. The current new wording of the provisions of the Wieland report relating to Article 24 of the proposal for a directive on the specifications referred to in Annex 1, section 7, as the report was amended following … –  Mr President, I welcome Commissioner Liikanen’s words, and I am contributing to the debate – we are all contributing to the debate – because, although the subject is broad in scope, it also concerns a specific fact. The subject in question is of great political and social importance. Free enterprise, free movement and free competition are essential pillars of the political and economic structure of the European Union. Company restructuring is part of the principle of free determination of investments, and must therefore be defended. However, all too often we witness events which are in stark contrast with these principles. Today, we are witnessing one of these cases, which, on the surface, may seem to be of minor importance and affect only the specific industry, but which, if it is allowed to pass without an authoritative intervention by the European Union, will become an unwritten rule which will cause problems for many of the Member States and the Union as a whole.  An American company – Goodyear – with production sites in Italy, Germany and England, is reviewing its production and relocation, justifiably, in its own view. However, it seems to be doing it without observing the relevant Community legislation, for it is certainly not giving reasonable notice to employees or heeding the obligation to render an account of their use of Italian and European public finances. In Italy, Commissioner Liikanen, Goodyear is not carrying out restructuring but closing a plant whose production covers 14% of the market and which Goodyear itself defined as, ‘having the most highly-skilled workforce of all its plants’, a plant which was opened with a total of EUR 85 million of European capital. No notice was given of the closure, and no intention was shown of discussing the fate of the plant or its workers, despite the fact that the public funds invested in that plant make it much more public than private. It would be a serious matter if every non-European company were to learn to use Europe as a bus where you do not have to pay for the ticket, you do not have to pay for cooperation, you benefit from using the facility and you leave without being accountable to anyone. Europe has to guarantee every sort of freedom, including freedom to use one’s own money for the purposes of one’s own freedom and not to let others use it at will, others who make demands and then, when the break is made, refuse even to discuss the terms of the break, despite the fact that this is a break which has been declared unilaterally. Just now, Commissioner Liikanen was talking of restructuring which must not be uninformed. Sadly, in this case, he has not taken into account those who are affected and seems not to have considered those carrying out the restructuring. I would also like to point out to Commissioner Liikanen that it is not easy to take a matter to a national court. Of course, it is always possible, but when jobs have been lost and factories closed down, the idea of going to Court when proceedings are as lengthy as they are in Italy is not very reassuring. Commissioner Liikanen, we expect an authoritative intervention. As Parliament, we are, of course, expecting to be able to contribute to the resolution you mentioned – we are ready and waiting – but we expect an authoritative intervention on this, which can on no account be allowed to reach its conclusion and be forgotten, as has almost happened already. –  Mr President, just now in his introductory speech, Commissioner Bolkestein mentioned two directives which are of great importance for the implementation of the internal market – the directive on public procurement and the directive on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. I am the rapporteur for these directives. Both directives address matters which are of considerable direct or indirect importance to the self-employed such as the implementation of free movement, freedom of establishment, citizens’ security, health and freedom in general and, of course, the safeguarding of civil rights. It would appear quite clear that the Commission is not taking sufficient account of the needs of the self-employed. The self-employed are the providers of intellectual services, not entrepreneurs, and they cannot easily be made subject to competition. There must be a definition in the Treaties, minimum rates must be established and the self-employed must be recognised on the basis of the training they have received rather than on the basis of their qualifications, which, moreover, differ from State to State. The associations and societies must be given due importance. The Commission’s plans for legislation in this area are inadequate and the self-employed are being penalised by this bureaucratic approach when they have the right to a social approach. The Commission and the Council are pressing forward in leaps and bounds with little consideration for the political positions of Parliament. I hope that what Commissioner Bolkestein said just now is a true reflection of the situation and that a proper dialogue is taking place involving the millions and millions of self-employed individuals, who are, I reiterate, the providers of intellectual services, not mere administrators. Mr President, the amendment provides for the words ‘adequately qualified’ to be inserted before the word ‘professionals’. . –  Mr President, I do not want to be misunderstood – I sincerely hope this does not happen – and I should therefore like to start by saying that I am, of course, in favour of combating fraud and firmly support the appropriate, necessary reforms.  This is not a straightforward issue and calls for a much more wide-ranging analysis, but I shall restrict myself to raising only a few points, in order to make people more aware, if possible, of what we are talking about. All the experts can provide information and news, formulate opinions and give advice, but, they have no political or elective responsibility, and rightly so. I nevertheless believe that politicians should look into what can be gleaned from an expert report and what cannot be taken  in a spirit which, on some occasions, I have felt in the past and still feel to be self-destructive.  I believe – and I shall only pick up on a few ideas– that Parliament alone, and no one else, can exert an influence over its Members. If this were not the case, the European Parliament’s authority and representativeness would be seriously undermined in the coming years, and this institution would not move forward, as it should.  It is just as important for no-one to be able to or have to refuse the European Parliament or its committees any documentation. Members of Parliament must possess the qualities of morality, discipline and discretion over delegated issues innately, and these certainly cannot be imposed on them by anyone else. I would point out that there is no European legal system, but that a different legal system exists in each Member State. We run the risk of delegating issues relating to the same offences which will then be punished in different ways. I agree that an investigation system should be introduced, but I am also absolutely convinced that we must recognise the right to equal respect for dignity and, in any case, the equal need for the right to a defence. I am opposed to European Community officials being accused of criminal acts at the drop of a hat: whistle-blowing is a method that has no place in the third millennium.  In conclusion, Mr President, Parliament must introduce a principle of democracy: we must implement reforms which allow Parliament to grow and expand its powers, not go into reverse. .  Mr President, we – and therefore I personally as rapporteur – agree with the request from the Group of the Party of European Socialists to keep, if possible, the debate on Thursday morning at 10 a.m. and to postpone the vote – which was conclusive at first reading – until the next session, that is to the part-session at the end of the month in Brussels. –  Mr President, of course we too endorse the opinion expressed in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on this request for waiver of immunity; that is, we support the rapporteur's proposal. However, I would like to take this opportunity to remind the previous speaker – not the rapporteur, the Member who spoke before him – that the immunity is Parliamentary immunity, not immunity of the individual Members, that the European Parliament expresses its self-protection through its Members and that the will of the Members who find that they are the subject of a request for waiver of immunity has no bearing on the situation, because each one of us represents the entire Parliament, not himself or herself. A Member's wish to relinquish immunity therefore has no effect: this is the custom and this is the written rule, and political expressions or, in any case, political activity – I repeat it is the custom – cannot be subjected to any type of judgment. Therefore, the Committee on Legal Affairs has expressed a clear opinion in these three cases: it has already expressed this opinion in the past and I am sure that it will do so again in the future, simply because it is now consolidated practice. Outside this Chamber, certainly no one could think or maintain that Parliament could be condemned for performing activities which are clearly and explicitly political. The refusal to uphold immunity in this case, and therefore the committee's proposal to waive immunity for something which has nothing to do with politics, is proof of consistency. –  Mr President, to continue what I was saying earlier, in actual fact, as we have seen in this Chamber, we very often find ourselves talking about immunity or about requests for waiver of immunity, according to procedures, application methods and characteristics which differ according to the origins or allegiance, whether national or political – more national than political if the truth be known, of each of us. Today, someone has raised this issue, which seemed to me, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, never to have been analysed before. I feel that Parliament and the Presidency must make further endeavours – and we are doing – and reach a speedy conclusion on the matter for the difficulties that arise from the different laws of the nations to which we belong do not, when it comes down to it, make all the Members subject to the same conditions. In the case in point – as Mr Zimeray very rightly said – the Committee on Legal Affairs expressed a unanimous vote on the matter. It is true that, in politics, there is sometimes exaggeration, very often personal comments are made, and we have witnessed precisely that in this Chamber today. However, we remain democratically of the opinion that, however strong the expressions used by each Member of Parliament, each politician, may be, they must be considered to be political actions – although I do not mean that Parliament must not cover up for individuals – and therefore, in order to protect Parliament, immunity must not be waived. On behalf of the PPE, I therefore endorse the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, while making it clear that, if comments on the personal affairs and private, personal lives of all of us – which, I regret to say, are often made, as the international press is doing at present – could be avoided, it would be much better and would certainly be an indication of more democratic, more correct political behaviour.